[
', 

', 
', 
', 
', 

', 

', 

	', Skip to Main Content', 

	', 
	', 

	', www.boe.ca.gov', 
    
	', 
	
	', 

	', 
	', u"
		google.load('search', '1');
		google.setOnLoadCallback(function() {
			google.search.CustomSearchControl.attachAutoCompletion(
				'001779225245372747843:3ekb7ulvxre', // update this value with your search engine unique ID. Submit a request to the OTech Service Desk if you don't already know your unique search engine ID.
				document.getElementById('search_local_textfield'),
				'local_form');
		});
	", 

	', 
		',  ', 
			', 
				', Search this site: ', 
                ', 
				
                ', 
				',  ', 
				',  ', 
				', 

			', 
			', 
				', 
				', 
			', 
		', 

',        
',   
', 
  ', u"$(function() {$('input, textarea').placeholder();});", 
	', 

    
	', 
		', 
			', Home', 
			', Bio', 
			', Contact', 
			', District', 
			', Events', 
			', u"Harkey's Golden State", 
			', Media', 
		', 
	', 
', 

', 
  ', 
    ', 
      ', Connecting Women to Power Business Conference 2016', 
      ', Biographies', 
      ', Diane L. Harkey', 
      ', Vice Chair, Fourth District', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Diane Harkey was elected in November 2014 to represent the State Board of Equalization's Fourth District. Harkey recently served three terms in the California State Assembly representing the 73rd District encompassing south Orange County.", 
      ', u"As a Member of the State Board of Equalization, District 4, she has capitalized on her private and public sector experience to promote the rights and interests of all taxpayers. Harkey advocates for policies that support job creation in the private sector, improve California's state budget outlook, and reduce the burden of complying with government audits and various tax regulations.", 
      ', u"Harkey believes that California must establish new policies that ensure future improvements in transportation, water, and other necessities, so our state can retain its place as one of the top- ranking economies in the world. Harkey continues to work with the other Members of the Board of Equalization, the Governor's Administration, and the State Legislature to make California golden, once again.", 
      ', u"During her time in the Legislature, Harkey authored numerous bills to reduce California's debt obligations and boost job creation in the private sector.", 
      ', While serving as Vice-Chair for the Assembly Revenue and Taxation Committee, she was a strong voice for taxpayer and business interests. Harkey also served as Vice-Chair of the Assembly Committee on Appropriations for three years where she was a forceful advocate for state spending restraint and policies that stimulate job growth.', 
      ', Harkey graduated Cum Laude with a degree in Economics from the University of California, Irvine. Prior to her service in the California State Assembly, she enjoyed a successful 30-year career in corporate finance and banking. Working in good and bad economic climates with individuals, small business owners, and leaders of publicly- traded companies helped form the pragmatic business perspective that Harkey brings to the Board of Equalization.', 
      ', Jerome E. Horton', 
      ', Member, Third District', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Jerome E. Horton currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Equalization (BOE) and as a member of the Franchise Tax Board. He was overwhelmingly re-elected for a 3rd term in 2014 to serve BOE's new Third District, which includes Ventura County and a portion of Los Angeles and San Bernardino Counties.", 
      ', Uniquely qualified, Horton joined the BOE with 27 years of business tax law experience and 14 years of legislative experience as a member of the California Legislature, California Medical Commission, Workforce Investment Board, California Endowment Board, and Inglewood City Council and Redevelopment Agency. He also served as president of Strategic Advocates, a business and governmental consulting firm, and as a real estate investment consultant at the Coldwell Banker Real Estate firm.', 
      ', From 2000 \u2013 2006, Horton served with distinction in the California State Legislature where he chaired the powerful Governmental Organization Committee and was a member of various influential legislative policy committees, including Education, Budget, Elections, Insurance, Banking and Finance, and Utilities and Commerce.', 
      ', Horton believes that Californians should not pay a penny more taxes than the law requires and he was instrumental in the creation of the BOE's "Taxpayers' Bill of Rights," which ensures California's taxpayers a fair and transparent process. He has also sponsored several tax credit initiatives that stimulate job creation and business development.', 
      ', With a focus on serving and protecting California taxpayers, Horton originated the Joint Enforcement Criminal Tax Force and has sponsored several legislative initiatives that target organized crime operations active in the underground economy. These measures help to level the playing field for California businesses.', 
      ', Horton executed his "Campaign Against Poverty," through such initiatives as his Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program, Senior and Professional Affordable Housing Symposium, Health, Wealth and Wellness Conference, the Connecting Women to Power Business Conference, the Nonprofit Financial Conference, and a series of Small Business Seminars throughout the district. Those programs continue to help strengthen California's economy while helping thousands of Californians improve their quality of life.', 
      ', u"Horton attended El Camino College where he earned his associate's degree in business administration and later attended California State University, Dominguez Hills, where he earned his undergraduate degree in finance and accounting.", 
      ', Chairman Horton is a native of Pine Bluff, Arkansas and is married to the Honorable Yvonne Horton, City Clerk of the City of Inglewood. They have two adult children, Myeshia and Matthew, one granddaughter, Sahara, one dog, and two cats.', 
      ', Amy Scruggs', 
      ', 
      ', u"Amy Scruggs is also a nationally known country music artist (and mother of 4) who has opened for many country music greats such as Clint Black, Trace Adkins, Charlie Daniels, Eric Church and many others. Amy has been featured in several national country music magazines and received national radio and press while on tour. Her proudest accomplishments as an artist were in being selected as the spokesperson and sponsored artist for the American Veterans (AMVETS) of California from 2009 through 2011. Amy stepped back into sales in Mortgage Lending for 5 years while still singing on request. She connects people from all aspects of her diverse career's as she is now a Senior Brand Development Executive at ChicExes a nationally known PR and Marketing firm based in North San Diego County.", 
      ', Elizabeth Alvarez', 
      ', News Anchor', 
        KUSI News', 
      ', Elizabeth is an award winning, bilingual journalist who has worked in news since the late 1990s.', 
      ', She was born and raised in Southern California and graduated from California State University, Long Beach with a degree in Journalism. The California native began her career at KCBS-TV in Los Angeles as a news assistant. After that, she worked as both an anchor and reporter in Roswell, NM, El Paso, TX and Orlando, FL.', 
      ', Elizabeth has covered some of the biggest stories to make national headlines. She reported on the ambush of the 507th Maintenance Company in Nasiriyah, Iraq during the 2003 invasion, bringing viewers up-to-the-minute information from the Fort Bliss army post. While working for the Fox affiliate WOFL in Orlando, she covered the disappearance of missing 2-year-old Trenton Duckett and the infamous Casey Anthony case.', 
      ', u"Elizabeth went on to anchor the morning news for KRQE News 13 in Albuquerque, NM and after three years, she comes to the nation's leading independent television station, KUSI-TV in San Diego, CA.", 
      ', Elizabeth now anchors the most-watched morning shows in San Diego -- Good Morning San Diego on Saturday and Sunday.', 
      ', Heidemarie M. Stefanyshyn-Piper', 
      ', Former NASA Astronaut', 
      ', Captain Heidemarie M. Stefanyshyn-Piper was born and raised in St. Paul, Minnesota. She attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on a Navy ROTC Scholarship, where she earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering in 1984 and a Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering in 1985.', 
      ', Selected as an astronaut by NASA in 1996, Captain Piper reported to the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. She is a veteran of two space flights: STS-115 on the space shuttle Atlantis in September, 2006 and STS-126 on the space shuttle Endeavour in November, 2008, logging over 27 days and 15 hours in space. She has completed five space walks, totaling 33 hours and 42 minutes of Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) time.', 
      ', In August 2009, Captain Piper departed NASA and reported to the Naval Sea Systems Command. In May 2011, Captain Piper reported as Commanding Officer of the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division in West Bethesda, MD. In July 2013, Captain Piper assumed command of Southwest Regional Maintenance Center in San Diego, CA, responsible for all non-nuclear ship maintenance in the San Diego area. She retired from the U.S. Navy after 30 years of Active Duty Service on 01 July 2015.', 
      ', She and her husband currently reside in Oak Harbor, WA.', 
      ', Deane Leavenworth', 
      ', Vice President of External Affairs', 
        Spectrum', 
      ', u"Deane Leavenworth joined Time Warner Cable in 2001 and served as Vice President of External Affairs with local responsibilities in government relations, community relations and media relations. During this time he worked closely with the company's various business units to establish numerous Time Warner Cable Technology Centers in communities of need throughout the greater Los Angeles Area.", 
      ', u"Before joining Time Warner Cable, now Charter Spectrum, Deane served as a senior official in the City of Los Angeles Mayor's office and the Third Council District. Prior to his City service Deane led Leavenworth Associates, an issue-oriented public relations firm with an emphasis on public/private pro-social partnerships.", 
      ', u"He began his career as a special education teacher, establishing one of the West Coast's first computer-managed and computer-assisted instructional laboratories.", 
      ', Liz Goodgold', 
      ', Author, Coach and Consultant', 
        REDfire Branding', 
      ', Liz is an author, coach, consultant, and motivational "speecher" who shares how to brand out, stand out, and cash in on your business.', 
      ', Big Company, Big Stage Experience', 
        This fiery redhead has engaged audiences at Pfizer, Warner Brothers, Abbott Labs, Qualcomm, and over 150 other companies and associations. She is a former brand manager at Quaker Oats, Business editor at Times Mirror, and lowly book "schlepper" at Macmillan Publishing. She gives over 75 talks per year across the globe including Hawaii, Canada, and China.', 
      ', Author and Contributor', 
        Liz is the author of 3 books: How to Speak Gooder, Red Fire Branding, and DUH! Marketing, and a contributor to 5 others including the latest revision of Small Business Marketing for Dummies. She was the branding columnist for Entrepreneur magazine reaching over 1.1 million readers each month.', 
      ', Media Savvy and Experienced', u"
        Liz's quick wit and quips gets her quoted in The Huffington Post, The New York Times, Fortune, and The Wall St. Journal. You can hear her sexy soundbites as the celebrity branding expert on Hollywood Scandals for seasons 1 and 2.", 
      ', Chanelle Hawken', 
      ', Director of Governments and Regulatory Affairs', 
        Cox Communications', 
      ', As the Director of Government and Regulatory Affairs, Chanelle manages local, state, county and federal legislative and regulatory issues for Cox Communications for the state of California.', 
      ', u"Previously, Chanelle served as the Vice President of Public Policy for the San Diego Regional Chamber managing the Chamber's public policy planning and advocacy agenda for the Chamber. Chanelle also worked for the San Diego County Regional Airport Authority, and at the City of San Diego where she served the Council President's Lead Policy Advisor.", 
      ', u"Chanelle holds a B.A. from the University of California at San Diego in Political Science and a minor in Law and Society, she received her J.D. from the University of San Diego School of Law, and is a member of the California Bar. She is a Board member of the Taxpayers Association, a graduate of LEAD San Diego, and San Diego Mayor Faulconer's Pure Water Working Group.", 
      ', Chanelle was recently recognized by the San Diego Business Journal as a "Woman Who Means Business" and Chanelle was also honored as one of San Diego Metropolitan Magazines "Top 40 Under 40" for 2014.', 
      ', Marilyn Hannes', 
      ', Park President', 
        SeaWorld & Aquatica, San Diego', 
      ', u"Marilyn Hannes was appointed Park President for SeaWorld and Aquatica in April, 2016. As the company's first woman Park President in San Diego, she leads all operations for both parks with more than 4,600 ambassadors and 12,000 animals. Prior to April, Hannes served as the Vice President of Global Sales for SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment, leading sales and distribution for domestic and international markets for 12 theme parks. Hannes began her 19-year career with SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment as Director of Travel Industry Sales for SeaWorld San Diego where she also served as Director of Sales and Vice President of Marketing and Sales.", 
      ', u"Hannes is a Past Chair of the California Travel Industry Association. Additionally, she is a past Chair of the Visit California International Committee and was invited to represent California's tourism leadership on Gubernatorial Trade Missions to China, Canada, and Mexico with Governor Schwarzenegger and Governor Brown. Hannes served the San Diego Tourism Marketing District via the Marketing Advisory Task Force and the San Diego 20-Year Tourism Master Plan Task Force. Hannes is also a former Chair of the Board for the U.S Travel Experience Network, a council of the U.S. Travel Association. In 2014, Hannes was appointed by San Diego's Mayor Faulconer and the San Diego City Council to serve on the Board of Directors of the San Diego Convention Center Corporation. Hannes currently serves on the Board of Directors for the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and the San Diego Tourism Authority.", 
      ', Hannes received the 1994 Leadership Award for General Manager Excellence from the Southern California Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association. Other accolades include the TWIN (Tribute to Women in Industry) in 2005, and the California Diversity Council Woman of Power and Influence in 2012. Hannes is a California native and recently relocated back from Orlando to San Diego with her husband Phil and son Brandon, the youngest of her five children.', 
      ', Fanny Miller', 
      ', President & Chief Executive Officer', 
        El Latino Newspaper, San Diego', 
      ', Fanny Miller founded El Latino San Diego in 1988. El Latino is the #1 Hispanic Newspaper in San Diego and the largest Spanish-language newspaper owned by a Latina in California. Miller founded, in 2011, Celebrando Latinas, the largest Latina conference in Spanish nationwide.', 
      ', Miller has been part of the board of directors of the National Association of Hispanic Publications (NAHP) and of the San Diego County Commission on the Status of Women; additionally, she was part of the founding board of directors of the National Latina Business Women Association (NLBWA) in San Diego.', 
      ', Miller has been recognized by the State of California and Assemblymember Shirley Weber as an "Outstanding Small Business of the Year." She received numerous awards including the Hispanic Heritage Leadership Award by the NFL, the Hispanic Marketing Lifetime Achievement Award by the San Diego Ad Club, Entrepreneur of the Year award by the San Diego Magazine, and Business Women of the Year from the National Latina Business Women Association (NLBWA).', 
      ', Kathy McKim', 
      ', Vice President, External Affairs', 
        AT&T', 
      ', u"Kathy leads the company's Statewide Constituency Relations organization and Operations. Her 29 year career at AT&T includes positions in Marketing, Sales, Operations and External Affairs. Kathy received her Bachelor's degree in Psychology and Public Affairs from the University of Denver and her MBA from the University of San Francisco. She has also completed Data Communications certifications from within AT&T and at UC Berkeley.", 
      ', u"Kathy was appointed by the Governor to the California Volunteer Commission in 2014. She is currently board chair for City Year Sacramento, Teach for America and College Track. She is an active board member of the California Asian Chamber and St. John's Program for Real Change and a partner with Social Venture Partners focused on improving education outcomes for students. She has received the Sacramento Business Journal Women Who Mean Business Award and is a senior fellow through the Mountain Valley Chapter of American Leadership Forum. Kathy has been recognized for her work in the areas of education and mentoring. She serves as a mentor for many young professionals both internal to AT&T and externally in the community.", 
      ', She is an avid runner, enjoys traveling and spending time with her husband and daughter.', 
      ', Tiffany Roberts', 
      ', Director of Fuels and Climate Policy', 
        Western States Petroleum Association', 
      ', u"Tiffany Roberts is the Director of Fuels and Climate Policy for Western States Petroleum Association. Ms. Roberts is responsible for working with association members to provide policy advice and to help craft a strategic approach to legislative and regulatory activities such as the Low Carbon Fuel Standard and climate policy regulations such as cap-and-trade. An economist by training, Ms. Roberts has spent almost a decade advising California policy makers on energy and climate policy. She started her career in energy policy at the local government level conducting economic analysis of local energy and climate policies. She then transitioned to the state's Legislative Analyst's Office \u2013 the non-partisan advisor to the California Legislature \u2013 where she served as the LAO's Senior Energy and Climate Policy Analyst for five years. While at the LAO, she authored numerous reports on traditional and alternative energy policies as well as other high-profile issues such as California's cap-and-trade program. She later served as a policy consultant to the Senate Republican Caucus where she advised Senators on environmental and climate policy issues. Her work has been widely cited and quoted in publications such as The Wall Street Journal, Scientific American, Bloomberg's Business Week, The New York Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Washington Examiner and others. In 2010, she received an award for significantly influencing California's climate policy debate. Ms. Roberts holds a B.A. in International Studies from the University of Southern MS and an M.A. in Economics from CA State University \u2013 Hayward.", 
      ', Crystal Guzman', 
      ', District Principal Auditor, Irvine District', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Crystal Guzman is the District Principal Auditor of the Irvine District office for the Board of Equalization. Crystal graduated from California State University, Fullerton with a Bachelor's of Arts degree in Accounting. Crystal began her career with the Board of Equalization as a student assistant over 18 years ago in the Santa Ana District Office. She then promoted through the various ranks as an auditor before being promoted to supervision and now as the District Principal Auditor. She oversees the audit program for the largest district office in California which encompasses all of Orange County.", 
      ', u"During Crystal's career she has had the opportunity to assist numerous taxpayers and motivate staff to achieve their career goals. Crystal is married and has two teenage sons. She and her husband enjoy their free time with family activities and traveling to National Parks. Her greatest joy is watching her children thrive in their education, sports and life.", 
      ', Lila Fedler', 
      ', Technical Assistant to the Advocate', 
        California Franchise Tax Board', 
      ', u"Lila Fedler is currently Technical Assistant to the Advocate and is the Franchise Tax Board's Education & Outreach Specialist responsible for education and outreach efforts designed for taxpayer, business and the tax practitioner community. She is an Enrolled Agent with the Internal Revenue Service. Lila began her career with the Franchise Tax Board in 1980, and has a broad range of experience covering both personal income and corporation tax laws. She has experience as a Protest Hearing Officer, Auditor, and as an Audit Technical Specialist and Reviewer. In addition to more than 30 years of experience with FTB, Lila worked in the private sector as a Senior Manager of state and local tax practice. Lila works directly with the Taxpayers' Rights Advocate to assure that the taxpayers have been afforded the protection of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.", 
      ', Lorena Fernandez', 
      ', Area Program Manager', 
        California Employment Development Department', 
      ', u"Lorena Fernandez-Peña, Area Audit Program Manager of the San Diego Tax Office, has over 24 years of Tax Branch experience. She is responsible to manage field operations to ensure the integrity of the Audit Program, promote voluntary compliance with the provisions of the California Unemployment Insurance Code (CUIC) and safeguard workers' rights. Lorena's diverse career has allowed her to develop wide-ranging skills and a comprehensive view of Tax Branch and Field Operations. She began her EDD career in the Audit Program in the San Bernardino Audit Office after receiving her Bachelor's degree in Business Administration.", 
      ', Regina Lauridsen', 
      ', Stakeholder Liaison', 
        Internal Revenue Service', 
      ', u"Regina Lauridsen works with the IRS as a Stakeholder Liaison in SBSE Communications and Stakeholder Outreach. Regina has held a variety of positions during her career at IRS including Tax Auditor and Revenue Officer. Currently Regina's duties include coordinating education and outreach events for payroll, practitioner and industry stakeholders. One of her assignments also includes working on the Issue Management and Resolution program which addresses systemic concerns about IRS policies, practices and procedures.", 
      ', Allison Soares, Esq.', 
      ', Senior Associate Attorney', 
        RJS Law', 
      ', u"Allison Soares is a Senior Associate Attorney at RJS LAW. She represents individuals and entities before the Internal Revenue Services (IRS), Franchise Tax Board (FTB), Employment Development Department (EDD), and State Board of Equalization (SBOE). She assists clients in the resolution of problems with federal, state, and local taxing authorities and also performs various tax-based calculations as well as tax related research to ensure compliance with state and federal law. Ms. Soares is an Adjunct Professor for Tax Procedures, Practice and Ethics at San Diego State University Charles W. Lamden School of Accountancy. She is also a member of the Lawyer's Club and SDCBA Ask-A-Lawyer Volunteer.", 
      ', 
      ', Tracy Borkum', 
      ', Principal', 
        Urban Kitchen Group', 
      ', Tracy Borkum is the Principal of Urban Kitchen Group. Tracy is nationally recognized for her CUCINA collection of restaurants, which showcases freshly inspired cuisine and imaginatively designed interiors. Over the course of two decades in the industry, Tracy has earned a reputation as an innovative thinker and risk taker. In 1995 Borkum opened her first venture, the iconic Kensington Grill and has since opened numerous restaurants including the Urban Kitchen Catering and CUCINA urbana, a California-inspired Italian restaurant and wine shop. This new value-driven concept offered guests an approachable menu with locally sourced ingredients and fine-dining service in a strikingly visual environment\u2014without breaking the bank. Borkum now has multiple locations in San Diego and Orange County.', 
      ', Borkum has been acknowledged as one of San Diego's top restaurateurs receiving numerous awards including a 2004 San Diego Women Who Mean Business Award by the SD Business Journal and a 2006 and 2012 San Diego Magazine's "50 People to Watch". She is the co-chair of San Diego Restaurant Week and sits on the Executive Board of the San Diego Chapter of the California Restaurant Association.', 
      ', Nicole Abraham', 
      ', Vice President of Marketing', 
        Luna Grill', 
      ', Nicole is responsible for leading all facets of marketing for Luna Grill, including brand positioning, communication strategies, advertising, public relations, creative/design, social media, local restaurant marketing and events. Nicole is a board member of the California Restaurant Association and comes to Luna Grill with over 13 years of restaurant leadership experience. Nicole is an integral part of the leadership team in driving collaborative efforts, position and relevance for all departments and restaurants. Nicole holds a Bachelor of Science Degree from San Francisco State University in Business and Marketing.', 
      ', Angie Weber', 
      ', Proprietor/Owner', 
        Cowboy Star Restaurant & Butcher Shop', 
      ', Angie Weber is the proprietor of Cowboy Star Restaurant & Butcher Shop. Cowboy Star has been ranked "The Best Steakhouse in San Diego" and in 2016 Zagat awarded Cowboy Star the title of #11th "coziest restaurant" in America.', 
      ', Angie is a 22 year veteran of the food and beverage industry. She started as a bartender and with the guidance of key mentors worked her way up to being a successful entrepreneur. Prior to owning a restaurant Angie was a leader in the spirits industry, working on brands like Skyy Vodka, Effen Vodka, and currently works as the Director of National Accounts for Monin Gourmet Flavorings.', 
      ', Angie and her partners now manage a staff of 95 employees and locations in California and Colorado. Angie also serves on the California Restaurant Association Board of Directors and a member of the chapters Government Affairs Committee.', 
      ', Lucy Stanci, 
      ', Vice Presidents of Operations', 
        Beshay Enterprises', 
      ', u"Lucy Stanciu is the Vice President of Operations for Beshay Enterprises in Southern California. Under her leadership, Beshay Enterprises grew to operate & oversee 61 locations (Corner Bakery Café \u2013 Jack in the Box \u2013 Denny's Restaurants) in southern California For the past 20 years, she held various positions from Team member, Assistant Manager, Restaurant Manager, and District Manager to currently Vice President of Operations. At Beshay Enterprises Lucy is actively engaged in the company's growth and expansion in Southern California. She is passionate about people development, personal and professional. She has developed and mentored many individuals for advancement to higher positions with more responsibility. She has influenced a culture of respect, trust, and loyalty. Today she directs a range of innovative and strategic initiatives for Jack in the Box, Corner Bakery Café & Denny's Restaurants. Lucy remains dedicated to building a company focused on quality emphasizing fast, fresh, handmade food served in warm & welcoming environment by people you can trust. She has always been an active member in the local community, participating in organizations like Big Brother Big Sister, Student of the Month program, Boys & Girls Club of Temecula, Relay for Life and San Diego and Temecula Chamber of Commerce.", 
      ', Mary Gendron', 
      ', Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer', 
        Qualcomm Incorporated', 
      ', u"Mary Gendron is senior vice president and chief information officer for Qualcomm Incorporated. In this role, Gendron will lead Qualcomm's global IT organization, driving operational excellence within the IT function and across the enterprise, as well as collaborating with the executive and business unit leadership teams to ensure Qualcomm continues to incorporate forward-looking technology solutions into the business, products, and strategies to achieve Company business goals.", 
      ', Prior to joining Qualcomm, Gendron served as senior vice president and chief information officer at Hospira, a leading global pharmaceutical and medical device company. Gendron brings more than 25 years of IT experience to the role, with expertise in developing and executing IT and talent-focused strategies, services and plans. She has led complex global organizations, driving proactive business strategies required to develop differentiation and has consistently generated customer, shareholder and employee value. Prior to working at Hospira, Gendron served as CIO at Celestica International, Inc., and served in other senior IT leadership positions at companies like The Nielsen Company, Motorola and Bell Canada.', 
      ', u"Gendron holds a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from McGill University in Canada.", 
      ', Regina Brown', 
      ', Small Business Development Manager', 
        San Diego County International Airport Authority', 
      ', Regina Brown joined the San Diego International Airport Authority in September 2015 as the Manager of Small Business Development. Regina oversees the SBD team, and serves as the Authority's Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Liaison Officer. Regina has a passion for "Inclusion and Diversity".', 
      ', Regina is the former Executive Director of the Congressional Black Caucus Political Institute. She has over 20 years of experience in Management, Human Resources Services, Business and Organizational Development.', 
      ', In addition to her accomplishments in Business Development, Regina has developed a website that assists military spouses with self-development. She is an active member of SHRM (Society for Human Resources Management), and NNA (National Notary Assn.). She resides on several local Military boards; to include: Co- Chair for CORE (Continuum of Resources Education), and HSM-49 Officer Spouses Club Advisor. Regina is the former President of HOSC (Helicopter Officers Spouses Club), and Vice President of NOSC (Naval Officers Spouses Club).', 
      ', Regina holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Management and a Masters in Human Resources Management. Regina is passionate about helping businesses make the most of their resources and talents, and believes that customers and GOOD customer service are vital to any business that intends to grow.', 
      ', Georgina Escamilla', 
      ', Manager of Business outreach', 
        Southern California Edison', 
      ', u"Georgina Escamilla serves as Manager of Southern California Edison's Business Outreach team. In this role she oversees strategy and field outreach for SCE's vast and diverse small business customers within Edison's 50,000 square mile territory. Her team of account managers strategically align with business, trade and ethnic organizations, to educate customers about energy efficiency, rates, tools, and programs, offering services in seven languages.", 
      ', u"Georgina has been with Edison nearly 20 years. She previously served as Edison's Economic Development project manager for Gateway Cities and San Gabriel Valley, where her focus was on retaining, expanding and attracting manufacturing companies to those regions by offering consultation and resources to assist customers in making well-informed location decisions.", 
      ', u"Her previous work at Edison includes positions as an Account Executive, working with leadership from the small business community to promote Edison's programs and services. She has also worked in SCE's Transmission and Distribution Department on regulatory and legislative issues.", 
      ', u"Georgina holds a Master's degree in Public Administration, and a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism, both from the University of Southern California. She is currently a board member of the Southeast Los Angeles County Workforce Development Board, and the Los Angeles Local Development Corporation.", 
      ', Georgina and her family reside in Whittier, CA.', 
      ', Arnice Lamb', 
      ', Manager of Supplier Diversity and Sustainability', 
        The Walt Disney Company', 
      ', u"Arnice Lamb is a Manager of Supplier Diversity and Sustainability, supporting all Enterprise Construction, Supply Chain, Disneyland Resort and Walt Disney Imagineering as well as managing Disney 2nd Tier Program, and has been with The Walt Disney Company since February of 1991. Prior to joining Disney, Mrs. Lamb held a number of managerial positions with organizations such as Shiley, Inc., a division of Pfizer Inc.; Medtronic Cardiopulmonary, a division of Medtronic, Inc.' and Bard Cardiopulmonary, a division of C.R. Bard, Inc. For several years, Mrs. Lamb has been instrumental in the development, implementation and compliance of Minority and Women Business Enterprise programs.", 
      ', u"Mrs. Lamb is a native of the state of Ohio. She attended Whiting College in Cleveland, where she received a Bachelor's of Science degree in Business Administration. Later Mrs. Lamb completed extension courses in Purchasing & Material Management at Fullerton College in Fullerton, CA, and Contract Administration at University of California, Irvine.", 
      ', An active participant in numerous organizations, Mrs. Lamb serves as Chairwomen for the corporate advisory committees of the American Indian Chamber of Commerce of California, Board of Directors for Women Business Enterprise Council \u2013 West, Corporate Advisory to the National Association of Minority Contractors & Women Construction Owners & Executives, and the National Minority Supplier Development Council, among others.', 
      ', Lisa Castillo', 
      ', Associate Director', 
        AT&T Supplier Diversity', 
      ', u"Associate Director Lisa Castillo is responsible for fostering key stakeholder relationships between AT&T Supplier Diversity and the minority communities across the west coast. Over the last 20 years Castillo has garnered an extensive background in marketing, sales, and channel management. Her deep knowledge and understanding of Wireless, Consumer, Small Business, Government/Education and Global Business segments has enabled her to provide optimal positioning of qualified suppliers into the supply chain. Currently Ms. Castillo is a board member of the Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council and WBEC-West, as well as serves on the Corporate Advisory Board with the Disabled Veteran's Business Alliance and Astra's Best Practices Committee. She earned her Bachelors of Science Finance degree from California State University of Sacramento and Masters of International Business from The Garvin School of International Management in Glendale, Arizona. Ms. Castillo is a California native and currently resides in Dublin, California with her husband.", 
      ', Virginia Gomez', 
      ', Chief Executive Officer and President', 
        Southern California Minority Supplier Development Council', 
      ', u"Virginia Gomez is CEO, President of the Southern California Minority Supplier Development Council (SCMSDC), a minority advocacy, corporate membership organization focused on advancing business connections for minority-owned businesses with large, majority corporations. SCMSDC is among the largest of 23 councils affiliated with a national organization based in New York, the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), serving 13 Southern California counties, and operating under four pillars: Ethnic minority certification, professional development, connections and advocacy. Prior to joining SCMSDC, Gomez held various management positions at the Los Angeles Department of Water & Power (the nation's largest municipally-owned utility), directing and managing personnel in budgetary, EEO, HR, contract compliance and supplier diversity, among others.", 
      ', Barbara Ybarra', 
      ', Executive Director', 
        One San Diego', 
      ', With 20 years of experience working with non-profits and public policy, Barbara Ybarra serves as Executive Director of One San Diego. In her early years, Barbara learned the fundamentals of organizing and community outreach from her grandfather, Cesar Chavez.', 
      ', Barbara worked as the National Program Director for Eureka Communities, an executive training organization for non-profit leaders in San Diego, Los Angeles, Detroit, Boston, San Francisco and Washington D.C. and with the Annie E. Casey Foundation as a consultant for their Neighborhood Development Initiative. This led to a $500,000 economic development grant to the Bronze Triangle area of San Diego.', 
      ', Barbara was a founder of the Cesar E. Chavez Commemorative Breakfast, has served as a Puente mentor, and writes and speaks frequently around the state about her grandfather. Barbara is a graduate of University of California, Santa Barbara with a degree in Political Science and holds an MBA.', 
      ', For more information on One San Diego visit our website at ', www.1sandiego.org', .', 
      ', Leah Goodwin', 
      ', Director of Museum and Education', 
        California Center for the Arts, Escondido', 
      ', u"Leah was the first Director of Education at the California Center for the Arts! She held that position from 1994 to 2000, paving the way for the Center's ongoing success in school and community collaborations and educational and cultural partnerships. After leaving the Center in 2000, Leah held important leadership roles in the Arts, including Education Director for the Museum of Children's Art in Oakland, President and COO of VSA Arts of California, Director of Art Programs and Fundraising Strategies at Aesthetics, Inc., and Director of Visual and Performing Arts at Jacobs Center for Neighborhood Innovation in San Diego.", 
      ', Leah serves as a Commissioner on the Status of Women for the County of San Diego. She is an accomplished and published poet and writer, including significant contributions to the book entitled "Teaching English Language Learners through the Arts" published in 2001. Leah's SUAVE program, which trained teachers to use the arts to teach a variety of school subjects) became a state-wide model for teachers and was widely implemented in local schools in Escondido, Fallbrook, Oceanside, San Marcos, and Valley Center. Leah re-joined the Center in November of 2014, and accepted the position of Director of Museum and Education in July of 2015.', 
      ', Diane Peabody Straw', 
      ', Executive Director', u"
        Women's Museum of California", 
      ', u"Diane Peabody Straw began fundraising early in her career, focusing on an international nonprofit that provided medical aid and career training to women and children in developing nations. She has since been involved in fundraising, event planning, communications, and volunteer management for political campaigns and nonprofits. Diane became passionate about the Women's Museum of California after being asked to serve on the Board of Directors, where she served as Funds Development Chair. Over the last year she has transitioned into the role of Executive Director.", 
      ', Maja Muric', 
      ', Manager', 
        Galactic Unite, a Virgin Galactic Initiative', 
      ', Maja Muric is a former professional tennis player and Olympian from Croatia, a war torn country that has inspired her to drive positive change around the world. Maja played on WTA Tour until the end of her career in 2000 when she dedicated the next 12 years to helping improve the quality of life for children with cancer. These experiences inspired her to expand her work and start her own not for profit organization in 2005 called Humanitarian Wave that works towards creating lasting positive effect in the quality of life of people and communities in need. In 2012 Maja took on her current role as the lead of Galactic Unite, a Virgin Galactic initiative that is harnessing the power of space to inspire and support the next generation to help solve many of our greatest global challenges.', 
      ', Maja is passionate about Galactic Unite and its unique opportunity to help change the perception of our place on this planet and in the cosmos through removing the barriers which have historically kept all but the elite few firmly on this side of the final frontier.', 
      ', MyMy L, 
      ', Public Affairs Manager', 
        Cox Communications', 
      ', u"As Public Affairs Manager for Cox Communications in California, MyMy Lu is responsible for developing and executing programs that align closely with Cox's corporate strategy for diversity and social responsibility and managing initiatives for Cox's local government and community affairs. Most recently, MyMy developed Cox's broadband adoption program, Connect2Compete, and is leading national efforts to close the digital divide in underserved communities.", 
      ', u"MyMy has been with Cox Communications since 2008, during which time she also worked with Cox's HR Team to implement mentoring programs and employee relations initiatives. Prior to joining Cox Communications, MyMy spent time as a program manager for the University of California, San Diego and the University of California, Los Angeles, helping to design executive education and research programs.", 
      ', MyMy currently serves on the executive team for the East Village Association (EVA) and The Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association (CCBA), as a board member of the Asian Business Association of San Diego and the San Diego Chamber of Commerce Young Leaders, and as an advisor to the San Diego Chapter of the National Association of Asian American Professionals.', 
      ', u"MyMy received her Bachelor's Degree from UCLA with a double major in Psychology & Chinese Studies and a minor in Cognitive Science. A long-time resident of Southern California, MyMy speaks Cantonese, Mandarin and Vietnamese, and enjoys sports and time with her family and friends in Orange County and San Diego.", 
      ', Tony Knott', 
      ', Information Officer I', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Tony Knott is as an Information Officer with the State Board of Equalization's (BOE) 4th District in Irvine, CA. Tony works as an agency liaison to Chambers of Commerce and Legislative Action Committees; and also works with the BOE Outreach Team to provide relevant information about state sales and use tax regulations, exemptions, and agency resources available for industry associations, non-profits organizations and small business owners.", 
        Prior to joining the BOE Tony had an extensive career in both journalism and public relations. He worked as a military journalist and public relations specialist for the Department of Defense where he was instrumental in developing public relations policy and communications efforts related to the Pearl Harbor Memorial, Armed Forces Day, Hawaii Military Week, and other news events involving military units in Hawaii, Yemen, Libya and Iraq.', 
      ', Tony is also a seasoned editor, writer and researcher who held various leadership and creative roles for the Press-Telegram, Arizona Republic, and The Washington Post newspapers over a twenty-year career.', 
      ', Claire Flores', 
      ', Retail Manager', 
        Philosophy Brands \u2013 COTY, Inc.', 
      ', Claire Flores is the Retail Manager for the Orange County/Inland Empire market for COTY \u2013 Philosophy. Flores has been in the retail industry for over 18 years in the capacity of various management positions. Prior to joining COTY \u2013 Philosophy, Flores supported Nordstrom in leadership roles for the Los Angeles, Orange County stores.', 
      ', During her Nordstrom employ, she achieved the prestigious "Customer Service All Star Award" in 2013. Claire is a proud "kidney donor" and spends her free time as a "UNOS \u2013 United Network for Organ Sharing Ambassador", speaking to the importance of organ donation to save lives!', 
      ', Francis Barraza', 
      ', Director of Appointments and Special Projects', 
        Office of San Diego Mayor Kevin L. Faulconer', 
      ', u"Francis Barraza is the Director of Appointments and Special Projects for Mayor Kevin L. Faulconer. She formerly served as the Executive Director of the Republican Party of San Diego County, State Director of Hispanic Initiatives for the Republican National Committee, and most recently as the Campaign Manager for the Mayor's successful reelection campaign. She serves on the board of the Republican National Lawyers Association \u2013 San Diego, as well as the California Women's Leadership Association. She is a native San Diegan and received her bachelor's degree from UC Irvine and law degree from UC Davis.", 
      ', Khea Pollard ', 
      ', Community Representative', 
        Office of San Diego County Supervisor Greg Cox', 
      ', u"Khea Pollard is a Community Representative for Supervisor Greg Cox. She coordinates the Supervisor's Neighborhood Reinvestment and Community Enhancement programs and represents him in the community with special focus on the neighborhoods in Southeastern San Diego.", 
      ', u"A native San Diegan, Khea graduated from the University of San Diego with a B.A. in English and a B.A. in Ethnic Studies. She held multiple leadership positions during her time at USD and is a recipient of the prestigious Who's Who Among Students in American Universities & Colleges, an award recognizing academic excellence, leadership in extracurricular activities, citizenship and services to the school, and potential for future achievement.", 
        She is a proud member of the Black American Political Association of California, Parliamentarian of the San Diego County Young Professionals and a RISE Urban Leadership Program Fellow. She aspires to attend law school in the future to study Critical Race Theory, aiming to one day combine community organizing and law for a career in advocacy for communities of color.', 
      ', Paige Haskin', 
      ', Legislative Aide', 
        Office of Assemblyman Travis Allen', 
      ', u"Paige Haskin is a Legislative Aide for Assemblyman Travis Allen, a California State Legislator. She has excelled in her political career as shown through her work on campaigns, fundraising, and policy. After graduating from San Diego State University in 2013, Paige worked for the California Republican Party to play a pivotal role in electing Kevin Faulconer to Mayor of San Diego. She continued into the role of Finance Director for the San Diego Republican Party where she challenged the status quo, and helped with grassroots politics. In 2015, Paige started working in the California State Capitol with Assemblyman Allen, acting as his Legislative Director. During her time in the Capitol, she has been instrumental in staffing the Member on multiple committees, issue areas, and Floor Session. She has also begun the continuation of her education through entering the Master's program at the University of Southern California.", 
      ', 
      ', Mark R. Mills', 
      ', President', 
        San Diego Public Leadership Institute', 
      ', Mark R. Mills is President of the San Diego Public Leadership Institute, a nonpartisan program for business-minded leaders who are interested in exploring public leadership. ', 
        Mills has spent 30 years successfully working with leaders in business, politics and public affairs to communicate their great ideas, engage audiences and move public opinion. He also co-developed and directed leadership programs that have cultivated future business-experienced political leaders in the U.S. and emerging civic-minded business leaders in a developing country.', 
      ', Mills has extensive communications and leadership/management experience on numerous political campaigns, including serving as message strategist for a successful and historic repeal referendum in Florida that saved taxpayers $25 billion.', 
      ', u"He served as deputy staff director and then staff director of the number-three ranking U.S. Senate Republican leadership office - the Republican Conference - (1998/99 - during the trial of President Clinton), which (retired) U.S Sen. Connie Mack of Florida chaired. Mark served as Mack's communications director during much of the Senator's tenure. He was twice named one of the 50 most influential Capitol Hill staffers by the newspaper Roll Call.", 
      ', Christina Vincent', 
      ', Manager, Economic Development', 
        City of San Diego', 
      ', u"Christina Vincent is an award winning economic development professional who over the past three years has been working as the Economic Development Manager for the City of Carlsbad, located in north San Diego County along the 78 Corridor. Christina has 16 years of economic development and redevelopment experience leading to the creation of jobs and economic health for several municipalities and business districts. As a San Diego native, Christina earned her Master's Degree in City Planning, certificate in Community and Economic Development and a Bachelor's Degree in Applied Arts and Sciences from San Diego State University. Go Aztecs! Prior to working for the City of Carlsbad, she spent six years in Colorado as the Redevelopment Program Manager and Economic Development Administrator for the City of Fort Collins and City of Thornton, respectively. She directed and managed the activities of the Urban Renewal Authorities, executed public/private projects, created three redevelopment project areas while managing four existing areas. In 2010, Christina was recognized as one of the Top 25 Most Influential Young Professionals by ColoradoBiz Magazine for her efforts in Fort Collins, Colorado.", 
      ', Prior to her work in Colorado, Christina was the Executive Director of the College Area Business Improvement District in San Diego for five years she got her start in economic development with the Adams Avenue Business Association. She is a graduate of the LEAD San Diego Impact class of 2015 and the Herbert G. Klein award winner for leadership. Christina currently resides in north county San Diego with her eight year old son, Jonah.', 
      ', Pamela White', 
      ', Senior Economic Development Coordinator', 
        City of Santee', 
      ', u"Pamela White has over 30 years of municipal government experience in economic development, redevelopment, and housing program administration, with expertise in property disposition, developer negotiations, marketing and public information. As Senior Economic Development Coordinator for the City of Santee, she is responsible for economic development and business recruitment and retention. White has held various positions with the City of Santee since 1985, including Director of Economic Development and Housing, Director of Redevelopment, and Risk Manager. Prior to that, she served as Public Information Officer for the City of Cathedral City, and as Assistant to the Executive Director of the Coachella Valley Association of Governments. She holds a Master's Degree in Public Administration and a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Administration.", 
      ', Jo Marie Diamond', 
      ', Chief Executive Officer', 
        San Diego East County Economic Development Council', 
      ', u"Jo Marie Diamond is President and CEO of the East County Economic Development Council, a full service economic development organization serving primary industry in San Diego's eastern sub-region. When projects support their core mission of cultivating a vibrant, sustainable economy in San Diego's East County, the Council takes on regional, statewide, and national projects. She shepherded one of ECEDC's flagship project, the Connectory.com Network, an online resource of company capabilities and capacities, from concept formation through current expansion. She and her team are leading a current Defense project to develop a big-data driven market intelligence capability to align defense solicitations more closely to the natural way industry does business.", 
      ', u"In 2014, Ms. Diamond became the San Diego region's representative on the Executive Board for Advanced Manufacturing Partnership \u2013 Southern California (AMP SoCal), one of only 12 federally designated Investing in Manufacturing Community Partnership (IMCP) consortia. ", u"
        Ms. Diamond was honored with the Women in Leadership Award in a non-profit by the East County Economic Chamber of Commerce in November 2013. Diamond has promoted the healthy economic climate and an enhanced quality of life in San Diego's East County region.", 
      ', Ms. Diamond has 30 years of experience in providing technology and industry forecasting, industry research and analysis, and program planning/management to companies, local and federal government agencies, and to non-profit organizations. Prior to joining the ECEDC, Ms. Diamond was principal with Business Change Catalysts (BC2), a technology assessment and systems analysis consulting firm and before that a principal at B-K Dynamics, a DoD contractor.', 
      ', u"Ms. Diamond received a Bachelor's degree in Biochemistry from the Catholic University of America as well as certificates in Information Retrieval Systems, Database Development and Technology Assessment.", 
      ', Maryann Edwards', 
      ', Mayor Pro Tem', 
        City of Temecula', 
      ', Mayor Pro Tem Edwards has been serving the community of Temecula on City Council for over 10 years. She has served as Mayor twice in 2009 and 2014 where she worked with City leaders to lead one of the most recognizable municipal economic recoveries from the economic downturn. She has represented Southwest Riverside in numerous regional leadership positions. Mayor Pro Tem Edwards is very involved in the local community having served as Director for the Temecula Theatre Foundation, a Director for the Susan G. Komen Foundation, Inland Empire Affiliate, President of the Assistance League of Temecula Valley, and an active member of the Rotary Club of Temecula. Maryann is currently Senior District Representative for California State Senator Jeff Stone.', 
      ', Eva Mondaca and Lisa Blalock', 
      ', Co-Founders', 
        Moms Helping Moms Build A Business®', 
      ', Eva Mondaca and Lisa Blalock are former corporate leaders turned entrepreneurs. As moms and businesswomen they are passionate about helping other moms experience success and co-founded Moms Helping Moms Build A Business®. Our Mission is to educate, inspire and empower women to build a successful business from home. We do this by empowering them to build value in themselves and their business through education, events and relationship networking.', 
      ', Angela Watts', 
      ', Founder', 
        Slyde Handboards', 
      ', u"Company owners and husband-and-wife team Steve and Angela Watts will share the story of Slyde Handboards, which they developed from a small California start-up to a million-dollar enterprise. Angela, brought the business idea to ABC's Shark Tank, where they secured funding from Mark Cuban and Ashton Kutcher.", 
      ', u"Angela Watts hails from Rhode Island, where she spent her summers on the ocean, sailing and bodysurfing. Her passion for sports, fitness and health translated into a bachelor's degree in physical education and health education from Plymouth State University, from which she graduated magna cum laude. She moved to California three different times before making Los Angeles her permanent home in 2011, where she worked for two different startups managing operations and marketing. In 2013, she joined Steve at Slyde Handboads, where she wears multiple hats including business planning and development, customer service, logistics, sales and finance.", 
      ', Joe McCloskey', 
      ', Co-Founder', 
        Helping Women Help Themselves', 
      ', Over the past 35 years, Joe McCloskey has been involved in virtually all aspects of running a business. His experience includes Fortune 500 companies as well as smaller private companies. He has held numerous senior management positions in several companies, including President & CEO of Specialty Foods Group, Hampton, VA, and President of Jif-Pak Manufacturing, Vista, CA. In 2012, he co-founded Helping Women Help Themselves with his wife, Debby. Their 501(c)3 organization is dedicated to providing education and business support to help women successfully own and operate their own small business. He has written "A Practical Guide for Creating a Successful Small Business".', 
      ', Anna Davison', 
      ', Vice President, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations', 
        Bridgepoint Education', 
      ', Anna Davison is vice president of corporate communications and investor relations for Bridgepoint Education. Davison has expertise in strategic messaging, public relations, creative media campaigns, crisis communications, social media, employee communications and intranet management. Prior to joining Bridgepoint Education, Davison was director of corporate communications for AMN Healthcare and previously held several positions with other local San Diego companies, including FTD Companies (previously Provide Commerce) and government defense contractor Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC). Earlier this year, Davison was the recipient of the 2016 Communicator of the Year award from the International Association of Business Communicators San Diego chapter.', 
      ', Anne Wenger', 
      ', Attorney', 
        McLaughlin Legal', 
      ', u"Anne handles all facets of Federal and California tax law. Anne focuses her practice in McLaughlin Legal's Tax and Estate Planning division, and also represents clients before all federal, state, and local agencies. Anne advises clients with regard to their fundamental estate plans (Trust, Wills, Durable Powers of Attorney and Advance Health Care Directives), as well as assists her clients in evaluating and implementing various tax strategies to help protect and preserve their assets. Originally from San Diego, Anne received her undergraduate education at the University of Notre Dame, graduated Magna Cum Laude from Gonzaga University School of Law, and obtained her Master of Laws degree (LL.M) in taxation from the University of San Diego.", 
      ', Tiffany Markus', 
      ', Director of Sales', 
        Cox Communications', 
      ', As the Director of Sales for Cox Business, Tiffany Markus oversees commercial product sales within the Small to Mid-Market customer segments. The Columbus, Ohio native has a passion for individual development and has been awarded for her involvement in mentoring programs. She has spent her entire career working on the business side of major telecommunications companies, giving her a unique perspective and distinct advantage.', 
      ', Mindy Bortness', 
      ', Vice President', 
        National Association of Women Business Owners, California', 
      ', Mindy is a recognized leader in guiding companies toward predictive hiring and retention of top talent as well as identifying and understanding how the organization itself can be better poised to navigate its stages of growth. Since 2002, Mindy has consulted with organizations such as A Wireless, BBB, McKinney Advisory, SDCBA, AltheaCMO, American Red Cross, Lincolnland Oil and IT Tech Pros.', 
      ', Mindy is certified in six "Sciences of Self" including DISC, Driving Forces and Emotional Intelligence. She is a WBEC-West Certified Woman-owned Business, current president of NAWBO-San Diego and VP of NAWBO-California. Mindy's charitable endeavors include working with adults/college students in career choice/transition and Dogs on Deployment \u2013 where you foster military pets while their owners are serving us overseas.', 
      ', Jenna Harris', 
      ', Director of Outreach and Policy', 
        Office of San Diego Council Member Chris Cate', 
      ', Jenna Harris leads community outreach efforts for the office of San Diego Councilmember Chris Cate, Sixth District. In her role as Director of Outreach, Jenna works closely with community members, businesses and non-profit organizations to ensure community needs are being met in a timely manner. Jenna also oversees policy items in the areas of infrastructure, military and veterans affairs and the city charter.', 
      ', u"Prior to joining Councilman Cate's Office, Jenna was Manager of Events and Operations for the San Diego County Taxpayers Association (SDCTA) where she oversaw daily financial operations and policy initiatives, and supported the Association's membership and outreach efforts along with planning and executing all of the Association's events, including the Golden Watchdog and Fleece Awards Dinner. In addition, Jenna was a Project Manager for Golden State Consultants, a political fundraising and consulting firm. Jenna is currently enrolled in LEAD San Diego's IMPACT program, and has volunteered her time with local dog rescues, Toys for Tots, and the San Marcos Unified Oversight Committee.", 
      ', Kristen Kane', 
      ', Deputy Director of California Competes', u"
        Governor's Office of Business and Economic Development", 
      ', u"Kristen Kane was appointed by Governor Brown in 2016 as the deputy director of the California Competes Tax Credit Program at the Governor's Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz). Kane served as tax counsel at the California Franchise Tax Board from 2010 to 2016, where she was a graduate legal assistant in 2008. She was an intern at the California State Board of Equalization Tax Appeals Assistance Program in 2010 and an attorney at the Legal Aid Society of San Diego from 2009 to 2010. Kane earned a Juris Doctor degree and LLM in taxation from the University of San Diego School of Law.", 
      ', Cheryl Brown', 
      ', Senior Business Advisor', 
        North San Diego Small Business Development Center', 
      ', Since June of 2007, Cheryl Brown has been a business advisor with the North San Diego SBDC as a Subject Matter Expert in Government Procurement with support services offered in the areas of Human Resources, Business Development, and Technology Commercialization. She has counseled over 1,500 small businesses resulting in over $100,000,000 awarded contracts with local, state, and federal agencies.', 
      ', As a small business owner herself, she brings a practical application approach to counseling focusing on moving small businesses forward every step of the way to achieve their goals. Mrs. Brown has been awarded the 2012 ASBDC State Star for the San Diego & Imperial SBDC Network, the 2010 SBA Women in Business Champion, as well as certificates of recognition from Assemblymembers, Senators, Members of Congress, and San Diego County Supervisors for her success and dedication to the small business community.', 
      ', Colleen Bourgeois', 
      ', Owner', 
        Bikram Yoga La Jolla', 
      ', Colleen Bourgeois is Owner of Bikram Yoga La Jolla & San Diego Water Ionizers/Tyent USA. Colleen is a certified hatha yoga instructor since 2001 and a small business owner since 2003. Bikram Yoga La Jolla is also home to Tyent Water Ionizers, a healthy drinking water choice. Colleen is a Mother of three grown children.', 
      ', Eldonna Lewis Fernandez', 
      ', Founder', 
        Dynamic Vision International, Inc.', 
      ', Eldonna is a retired Air Force veteran with 23 years of honorable military service. She is a negotiation and contracts expert with over 30 years of leadership, contracts management and negotiation experience. She has negotiated contracts from $1 to over $100 million both stateside and internationally. She was deployed to the Middle East after 911 and has years of experience in foreign acquisition.', 
      ', She is a subject matter expert in the Contracting Career Field and has developed and taught courses on Contract Claims, Negotiation and other aspects of Contracting. She was recently featured on Fox Business and has 7 years of extensive experience working for defense contractors in the Aerospace Industry. She holds a Top Secret security clearance and has been a trusted agent of the U.S. Government for 30 years.', 
      ', Vallery Belloso', 
      ', Chief Strategy Officer', 
        Accion', 
      ', u"Valery Belloso joined Accion, a nonprofit microlender providing business loans up to $75,000 and other support services to local entrepreneurs, in 2006. As Chief Strategy Officer, she is instrumental in leading the organization's business development strategy, managing key partnerships, overseeing strategic organizational projects and ensuring programmatic goals are being met effectively. She holds a Bachelor's in Business Administration from the University of San Diego and a Masters in Spanish Language and Literature from San Diego State University.", 
      ', Rosebell Murig, 
      ', Chief Executive Officer', 
        Fedcom Technology, Microsoft Expert Partner', 
      ', Rosebell Murigu is leading Microsoft partner and CEO of Fedcom Technology. Fedcom Technology is an IT service firm in San Diego that works exclusively with Small and Medium businesses and fully understands the unique challenges of Cyber Security.', 
      ', As an Information Technology executive Ms. Murigu has extensive experience and expertise in advanced hardware, software, operating systems and Virtualization Technology. As an accomplished professional she is committed to the leadership of an organization that offers a client-focused approach to high-quality IT support and management services.', 
      ', Prior to starting her own small business Ms. Murigu was IT Director for Coastal Credit Union, Inc. and worked at IBM. Ms. Murigu has a B.A. in Information Systems Security and MBA in Business commerce.', 
      ', Edna Murphy', 
      ', Deputy Director of Administration', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', Edna Murphy is the Deputy Director of Administration for the Board of Equalization where she has fiscal oversight of $60.4 billion in revenue collections, an estimated operating budget of $577 million, and 4,830 positions.', 
      ', u"Edna has over 25 years of state service experience that includes oversight and fiscal accountability for very controversial and high profile programs. She previously served as Chief over the Budget Section at Department of Developmental Services where she managed over $6.7 billion for Regional and Developmental Centers and as Assistant Director for the Budget Management Branch at Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, where she had fiscal oversight of an estimated $10 billion in general and federal funds. Earlier, she held a senior staff position at California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) where she was responsible for over $177 billion in investment portfolio of stocks, bonds, and real estate.", 
      ', u"Edna earned her undergraduate degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting from California State University, Sacramento, and her Master's degree in Business Administration from University of Phoenix.", 
      ', Edna is a native of Chicago, Illinois. She resides in Sacramento with her son, Derrick.', 
      ', Johanna Hester', 
      ', Special Assistant to the Executive Director', 
        UDW AFSCME Local 3930', 
      ', u"Johanna Hester's dedication to working families began in the 1990s when she successfully organized 2,000 recreation and park assistants in Los Angeles as Lead Organizer for AFSCME. Since her early organizing days, Johanna has become a formidable labor leader, champion for home care providers, and outspoken advocate for the immigrant and civil rights of workers. She currently represents the United Domestic Workers (UDW), is an International Vice President of AFSCME, and is National President of the Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance (APALA). Johanna also recently completed the Senior Executives in State and Local Government program with the Harvard Kennedy School.", 
      ', Alejandra Sotelo-Solis', 
      ', National City Council Member', 
      ', u"Alejandra Sotelo-is a second term Councilmember in National City Council and the Director of the UC San Diego Community Law Project, working with undergraduate students who are pursuing careers in Law and Public Policy. She oversees student recruitment, department budget, establishes and maintains relationships with community-based organizations and law schools across the Nation. She was formerly the Community Relations Coordinator for the UC San Diego Chancellor's Office. Previously, Alejandra served as District Director for San Diego Assembly Member Lori Saldaña and a Field Representative for Assembly Member Judy Chu.", 
      ', Alejandra has been an active member in the community. She is an active member of the San Diego Cesar E. Chavez Commemorative Committee and was Co-chair of the 2008 Parade Committee. She is active with San Diego MANA, a youth mentorship organization, and was Chair for the American Diabetes Association- Health Fair/Feria de Salud. She is also past President of the UCSD Chicano Alumni Association.', 
      ', Dana Whittaker', 
      ', Sales Manager', u"
        Pacific Sotheby's International Realty", 
      ', u"Dana Whittaker has been involved in the real estate industry since 2000, and brings extensive sales training and management experience to her role as the Carlsbad Sales Manager for Pacific Sotheby's International Realty. She has a true passion for coaching and consulting agents, teams and sales offices, and is certified as an Advanced Professional Coach by Quantum Leap Leadership. Many of Whittaker's clients have become some of the most successful agents in the industry, as recognized by the Wall Street Journal.", 
      ', u"In her previous position as Vice President for an independent brokerage in Carlsbad, CA, Whittaker recruited and drove sales for an increase of 431%. Looking to grow with the most extraordinary people in the business, Whittaker aligned with Pacific Sotheby's International Realty and is excited about utilizing the marketing opportunities that the Sotheby's International Realty brand offers to help her support her agents and office as well as to help increase the company's presence in North County.", 
      ', Whittaker currently serves on the Board of Directors for the North San Diego County Association of Realtors and is active in her community and with her family. Her philosophy on life is guided by Aristotle, "We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit."', 
      ', Tina Balch', 
      ', Past President', 
        Asian Real Estate Association of America, San Diego Chapter', 
      ', Born and raised in the Philippines, Tina graduated Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing, however, she followed a different calling in sales. Tina started in the pharmaceutical world for 8 years and garnered several awards that gave her the opportunity to visit US in 1997. She met and married the love of her life in 1999, and found her true calling in real estate in 2001!', 
      ', With over 15 years of experience in real estate, Tina formed a team and focuses her real estate career in lending, residential and distressed properties closing hundreds of transactions together.', 
      ', u"Tina's passion for service has led her to become AREAA (Asian Real Estate Association of America) San Diego Chapter President in 2015, an organization that focuses in sustaining home ownership in Asian American Community.", 
      ', Tina also owns a restaurant with her husband called happy sushi and a flourishing catering business while raising her two kids.', 
      ', Rebecca Pollack-Rude', 
      ', Realtor®, San Diego Realty Gals', u"
        Board Member, Women's Council of Realtors®, San Diego County", 
      ', Rebecca Pollack-Rude is Co-owner of the San Diego Realty Gals. The Brokerage specializes in residential sales and leasing. Rebecca and her business partner Michelle Hellerud started their "Boutique" Brokerage with the objective of proving all customers with great old fashioned personalized service. In addition, Rebecca serves on a number of industry committees including Grievance and Housing Opportunities to address the issues of affordable housing in the region.', 
      ', u"Rebecca moved to California back in 1998 after graduating from the University of Arizona with a degree in Communications and General Business. Rebecca is Director of Programs for the Women's Council of Realtors San Diego chapter and currently serves on their Board of Directors. In her spare time, she focuses on her 2 children, their extracurricular activities and making sure they learn to be good stewards of their community.", 
      ', Angela Avilez', 
      ', Realtor® and Past President', 
        National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals (NAHREP)', 
      ', Angela Avilez is Century 21 "Centurion Award Agent" putting her in the top 1% of agents in her brokerage. She is a sales professional with over ten years of real estate and mortgage financing experience. Angela has cultivated a distinctive professional style and a wide breadth of real estate expertise which continues to prove invaluable to her many satisfied clients. One of her greatest assets is her unique vision which enables her to think outside the box, she succeeds in completing the challenge of finding that special home. Angela was past president of the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals San Diego chapter and is currently a member of the board.', 
      ', Regina P. Brown', 
      ', President-Elect', u"
        Women's Council of Realtors®, San Diego County", 
      ', Regina P. Brown is the San Diego Women's Council of Realtors® 2016 President-Elect and broker/owner of California Coast & Country Homes with over 25 year of industry experience. Ms. Brown is a speaker, trainer, and technical writer for RealtyPro Advisor. Her first published book and ebook "Buy Your First Home" received rave reviews from both real estate agents and home buyers. Regina's new books for the real estate industry this year include: "Learn the Lingo of Houses", "2016 Goal Achiever", and "The PlayBook Game Plan".', 
      ', Ms. Brown earned B.A. in Real Estate from the Forbes School of Business at Ashford University and is a member of the North San Diego County Association of Realtors®. She is an e-Pro Realtor®, GREEN Certified, and loves learning.', 
      ', Jan Farley', 
      ', President', u"
        Women's Council of Realtors®, San Diego County", 
      ', u"Jan Farley was literally born for real estate. Her dad was broker/owner of Mahan Realty in Escondido, and she began working at the company when she was 16. From those beginnings, she was licensed at 19 and became a broker in 1988, owning and operating mortgage and real estate companies. In 2011 she became managing broker of Windermere SoCal in La Mesa, and now is managing broker at San Terra Properties. She has helped hundreds of clients buy and sell homes and arrange financing for their purchases and refi's over the years", 
      ', u"Jan currently serves as 2016 President of Women's Council of Realtors (WCR), San Diego County, and the 2016 Credentials Committee chair for California WCR. Jan also is the President-Elect of the Pacific Southwest Association of Realtors.", 
      ', Ana Martinez', 
      ', Associate Manager, State Political Outreach', 
        Facebook, Inc.', 
      ', u"Ana Martinez is the Associate Manager for State Political Outreach at Facebook. As a Facebook representative, she helps state elected officials better understand how the service works and what the company needs to remain an engine of economic growth in America. Ana also works with elected officials to introduce Facebook's safety and business development programs to local communities across the country. Prior to joining the State Public Policy team she worked in Facebook's Washington, DC office on the policy programs team focusing on small and medium sized businesses. Ana has advised thousands of small business owners from a variety of industries in both the United States and Mexico on how to use Facebook to grow their businesses, reach customers, and increase sales. She earned her J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law, and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in English Literature and Political Science from the University of Texas at El Paso. She is fluent in Spanish and based in Menlo Park, CA, at Facebook headquarters.", 
      ',  ', 
    ', 
  ', 
', 

', 

', 
', 
    
    ', 
    ', 
        ', Facebook', 
        ', Twitter', 
        ', YouTube', 
        ', RSS Feed', 
    ', 
    ', 
    
    ', 
	
    ', 
      ', Contact Information', 
      ', 
          ', Irvine Office', 
          16715 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 150', 
          Irvine, CA 92606', 
          Phone: 1-949-724-2578 | Fax: 1-949-724-2805
      ', 
      ', 
          ', Sacramento Office', 
          400 Capitol Mall, Suite 2580', 
          Sacramento CA 95814', 
          Phone: 1-916-323-9794 | Fax: 1-916-323-0546
      ', 
    ', 
    
    ', 
        
	', 
		', Disclaimer',  | ', Report Problems with Website',  | ', Conditions of Use',  | ', Accessibility',  | ', Privacy Policy', 
', 
	', 
		Copyright © 2015 State of California
	', 
', 

'][
', 

', 
', 
', 
', 

', 

', 

	', Skip to Main Content', 

	', 
	', 

	', www.boe.ca.gov', 
    
	', 
	
	', 

	', 
	', u"
		google.load('search', '1');
		google.setOnLoadCallback(function() {
			google.search.CustomSearchControl.attachAutoCompletion(
				'001779225245372747843:3ekb7ulvxre', // update this value with your search engine unique ID. Submit a request to the OTech Service Desk if you don't already know your unique search engine ID.
				document.getElementById('search_local_textfield'),
				'local_form');
		});
	", 

	', 
		',  ', 
			', 
				', Search this site: ', 
                ', 
				
                ', 
				',  ', 
				',  ', 
				', 

			', 
			', 
				', 
				', 
			', 
		', 

',        
',   
', 
  ', u"$(function() {$('input, textarea').placeholder();});", 
	', 

    
	', 
		', 
			', Home', 
			', Bio', 
			', Contact', 
			', District', 
			', Events', 
			', u"Harkey's Golden State", 
			', Media', 
		', 
	', 
', 

', 
  ', 
    ', 
      ', Connecting Women to Power Business Conference 2016', 
      ', Biographies', 
      ', Diane L. Harkey', 
      ', Vice Chair, Fourth District', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Diane Harkey was elected in November 2014 to represent the State Board of Equalization's Fourth District. Harkey recently served three terms in the California State Assembly representing the 73rd District encompassing south Orange County.", 
      ', u"As a Member of the State Board of Equalization, District 4, she has capitalized on her private and public sector experience to promote the rights and interests of all taxpayers. Harkey advocates for policies that support job creation in the private sector, improve California's state budget outlook, and reduce the burden of complying with government audits and various tax regulations.", 
      ', u"Harkey believes that California must establish new policies that ensure future improvements in transportation, water, and other necessities, so our state can retain its place as one of the top- ranking economies in the world. Harkey continues to work with the other Members of the Board of Equalization, the Governor's Administration, and the State Legislature to make California golden, once again.", 
      ', u"During her time in the Legislature, Harkey authored numerous bills to reduce California's debt obligations and boost job creation in the private sector.", 
      ', While serving as Vice-Chair for the Assembly Revenue and Taxation Committee, she was a strong voice for taxpayer and business interests. Harkey also served as Vice-Chair of the Assembly Committee on Appropriations for three years where she was a forceful advocate for state spending restraint and policies that stimulate job growth.', 
      ', Harkey graduated Cum Laude with a degree in Economics from the University of California, Irvine. Prior to her service in the California State Assembly, she enjoyed a successful 30-year career in corporate finance and banking. Working in good and bad economic climates with individuals, small business owners, and leaders of publicly- traded companies helped form the pragmatic business perspective that Harkey brings to the Board of Equalization.', 
      ', Jerome E. Horton', 
      ', Member, Third District', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Jerome E. Horton currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Equalization (BOE) and as a member of the Franchise Tax Board. He was overwhelmingly re-elected for a 3rd term in 2014 to serve BOE's new Third District, which includes Ventura County and a portion of Los Angeles and San Bernardino Counties.", 
      ', Uniquely qualified, Horton joined the BOE with 27 years of business tax law experience and 14 years of legislative experience as a member of the California Legislature, California Medical Commission, Workforce Investment Board, California Endowment Board, and Inglewood City Council and Redevelopment Agency. He also served as president of Strategic Advocates, a business and governmental consulting firm, and as a real estate investment consultant at the Coldwell Banker Real Estate firm.', 
      ', From 2000 \u2013 2006, Horton served with distinction in the California State Legislature where he chaired the powerful Governmental Organization Committee and was a member of various influential legislative policy committees, including Education, Budget, Elections, Insurance, Banking and Finance, and Utilities and Commerce.', 
      ', Horton believes that Californians should not pay a penny more taxes than the law requires and he was instrumental in the creation of the BOE's "Taxpayers' Bill of Rights," which ensures California's taxpayers a fair and transparent process. He has also sponsored several tax credit initiatives that stimulate job creation and business development.', 
      ', With a focus on serving and protecting California taxpayers, Horton originated the Joint Enforcement Criminal Tax Force and has sponsored several legislative initiatives that target organized crime operations active in the underground economy. These measures help to level the playing field for California businesses.', 
      ', Horton executed his "Campaign Against Poverty," through such initiatives as his Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program, Senior and Professional Affordable Housing Symposium, Health, Wealth and Wellness Conference, the Connecting Women to Power Business Conference, the Nonprofit Financial Conference, and a series of Small Business Seminars throughout the district. Those programs continue to help strengthen California's economy while helping thousands of Californians improve their quality of life.', 
      ', u"Horton attended El Camino College where he earned his associate's degree in business administration and later attended California State University, Dominguez Hills, where he earned his undergraduate degree in finance and accounting.", 
      ', Chairman Horton is a native of Pine Bluff, Arkansas and is married to the Honorable Yvonne Horton, City Clerk of the City of Inglewood. They have two adult children, Myeshia and Matthew, one granddaughter, Sahara, one dog, and two cats.', 
      ', Amy Scruggs', 
      ', 
      ', u"Amy Scruggs is also a nationally known country music artist (and mother of 4) who has opened for many country music greats such as Clint Black, Trace Adkins, Charlie Daniels, Eric Church and many others. Amy has been featured in several national country music magazines and received national radio and press while on tour. Her proudest accomplishments as an artist were in being selected as the spokesperson and sponsored artist for the American Veterans (AMVETS) of California from 2009 through 2011. Amy stepped back into sales in Mortgage Lending for 5 years while still singing on request. She connects people from all aspects of her diverse career's as she is now a Senior Brand Development Executive at ChicExes a nationally known PR and Marketing firm based in North San Diego County.", 
      ', Elizabeth Alvarez', 
      ', News Anchor', 
        KUSI News', 
      ', Elizabeth is an award winning, bilingual journalist who has worked in news since the late 1990s.', 
      ', She was born and raised in Southern California and graduated from California State University, Long Beach with a degree in Journalism. The California native began her career at KCBS-TV in Los Angeles as a news assistant. After that, she worked as both an anchor and reporter in Roswell, NM, El Paso, TX and Orlando, FL.', 
      ', Elizabeth has covered some of the biggest stories to make national headlines. She reported on the ambush of the 507th Maintenance Company in Nasiriyah, Iraq during the 2003 invasion, bringing viewers up-to-the-minute information from the Fort Bliss army post. While working for the Fox affiliate WOFL in Orlando, she covered the disappearance of missing 2-year-old Trenton Duckett and the infamous Casey Anthony case.', 
      ', u"Elizabeth went on to anchor the morning news for KRQE News 13 in Albuquerque, NM and after three years, she comes to the nation's leading independent television station, KUSI-TV in San Diego, CA.", 
      ', Elizabeth now anchors the most-watched morning shows in San Diego -- Good Morning San Diego on Saturday and Sunday.', 
      ', Heidemarie M. Stefanyshyn-Piper', 
      ', Former NASA Astronaut', 
      ', Captain Heidemarie M. Stefanyshyn-Piper was born and raised in St. Paul, Minnesota. She attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on a Navy ROTC Scholarship, where she earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering in 1984 and a Master of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering in 1985.', 
      ', Selected as an astronaut by NASA in 1996, Captain Piper reported to the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. She is a veteran of two space flights: STS-115 on the space shuttle Atlantis in September, 2006 and STS-126 on the space shuttle Endeavour in November, 2008, logging over 27 days and 15 hours in space. She has completed five space walks, totaling 33 hours and 42 minutes of Extra-Vehicular Activity (EVA) time.', 
      ', In August 2009, Captain Piper departed NASA and reported to the Naval Sea Systems Command. In May 2011, Captain Piper reported as Commanding Officer of the Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division in West Bethesda, MD. In July 2013, Captain Piper assumed command of Southwest Regional Maintenance Center in San Diego, CA, responsible for all non-nuclear ship maintenance in the San Diego area. She retired from the U.S. Navy after 30 years of Active Duty Service on 01 July 2015.', 
      ', She and her husband currently reside in Oak Harbor, WA.', 
      ', Deane Leavenworth', 
      ', Vice President of External Affairs', 
        Spectrum', 
      ', u"Deane Leavenworth joined Time Warner Cable in 2001 and served as Vice President of External Affairs with local responsibilities in government relations, community relations and media relations. During this time he worked closely with the company's various business units to establish numerous Time Warner Cable Technology Centers in communities of need throughout the greater Los Angeles Area.", 
      ', u"Before joining Time Warner Cable, now Charter Spectrum, Deane served as a senior official in the City of Los Angeles Mayor's office and the Third Council District. Prior to his City service Deane led Leavenworth Associates, an issue-oriented public relations firm with an emphasis on public/private pro-social partnerships.", 
      ', u"He began his career as a special education teacher, establishing one of the West Coast's first computer-managed and computer-assisted instructional laboratories.", 
      ', Liz Goodgold', 
      ', Author, Coach and Consultant', 
        REDfire Branding', 
      ', Liz is an author, coach, consultant, and motivational "speecher" who shares how to brand out, stand out, and cash in on your business.', 
      ', Big Company, Big Stage Experience', 
        This fiery redhead has engaged audiences at Pfizer, Warner Brothers, Abbott Labs, Qualcomm, and over 150 other companies and associations. She is a former brand manager at Quaker Oats, Business editor at Times Mirror, and lowly book "schlepper" at Macmillan Publishing. She gives over 75 talks per year across the globe including Hawaii, Canada, and China.', 
      ', Author and Contributor', 
        Liz is the author of 3 books: How to Speak Gooder, Red Fire Branding, and DUH! Marketing, and a contributor to 5 others including the latest revision of Small Business Marketing for Dummies. She was the branding columnist for Entrepreneur magazine reaching over 1.1 million readers each month.', 
      ', Media Savvy and Experienced', u"
        Liz's quick wit and quips gets her quoted in The Huffington Post, The New York Times, Fortune, and The Wall St. Journal. You can hear her sexy soundbites as the celebrity branding expert on Hollywood Scandals for seasons 1 and 2.", 
      ', Chanelle Hawken', 
      ', Director of Governments and Regulatory Affairs', 
        Cox Communications', 
      ', As the Director of Government and Regulatory Affairs, Chanelle manages local, state, county and federal legislative and regulatory issues for Cox Communications for the state of California.', 
      ', u"Previously, Chanelle served as the Vice President of Public Policy for the San Diego Regional Chamber managing the Chamber's public policy planning and advocacy agenda for the Chamber. Chanelle also worked for the San Diego County Regional Airport Authority, and at the City of San Diego where she served the Council President's Lead Policy Advisor.", 
      ', u"Chanelle holds a B.A. from the University of California at San Diego in Political Science and a minor in Law and Society, she received her J.D. from the University of San Diego School of Law, and is a member of the California Bar. She is a Board member of the Taxpayers Association, a graduate of LEAD San Diego, and San Diego Mayor Faulconer's Pure Water Working Group.", 
      ', Chanelle was recently recognized by the San Diego Business Journal as a "Woman Who Means Business" and Chanelle was also honored as one of San Diego Metropolitan Magazines "Top 40 Under 40" for 2014.', 
      ', Marilyn Hannes', 
      ', Park President', 
        SeaWorld & Aquatica, San Diego', 
      ', u"Marilyn Hannes was appointed Park President for SeaWorld and Aquatica in April, 2016. As the company's first woman Park President in San Diego, she leads all operations for both parks with more than 4,600 ambassadors and 12,000 animals. Prior to April, Hannes served as the Vice President of Global Sales for SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment, leading sales and distribution for domestic and international markets for 12 theme parks. Hannes began her 19-year career with SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment as Director of Travel Industry Sales for SeaWorld San Diego where she also served as Director of Sales and Vice President of Marketing and Sales.", 
      ', u"Hannes is a Past Chair of the California Travel Industry Association. Additionally, she is a past Chair of the Visit California International Committee and was invited to represent California's tourism leadership on Gubernatorial Trade Missions to China, Canada, and Mexico with Governor Schwarzenegger and Governor Brown. Hannes served the San Diego Tourism Marketing District via the Marketing Advisory Task Force and the San Diego 20-Year Tourism Master Plan Task Force. Hannes is also a former Chair of the Board for the U.S Travel Experience Network, a council of the U.S. Travel Association. In 2014, Hannes was appointed by San Diego's Mayor Faulconer and the San Diego City Council to serve on the Board of Directors of the San Diego Convention Center Corporation. Hannes currently serves on the Board of Directors for the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and the San Diego Tourism Authority.", 
      ', Hannes received the 1994 Leadership Award for General Manager Excellence from the Southern California Hospitality Sales and Marketing Association. Other accolades include the TWIN (Tribute to Women in Industry) in 2005, and the California Diversity Council Woman of Power and Influence in 2012. Hannes is a California native and recently relocated back from Orlando to San Diego with her husband Phil and son Brandon, the youngest of her five children.', 
      ', Fanny Miller', 
      ', President & Chief Executive Officer', 
        El Latino Newspaper, San Diego', 
      ', Fanny Miller founded El Latino San Diego in 1988. El Latino is the #1 Hispanic Newspaper in San Diego and the largest Spanish-language newspaper owned by a Latina in California. Miller founded, in 2011, Celebrando Latinas, the largest Latina conference in Spanish nationwide.', 
      ', Miller has been part of the board of directors of the National Association of Hispanic Publications (NAHP) and of the San Diego County Commission on the Status of Women; additionally, she was part of the founding board of directors of the National Latina Business Women Association (NLBWA) in San Diego.', 
      ', Miller has been recognized by the State of California and Assemblymember Shirley Weber as an "Outstanding Small Business of the Year." She received numerous awards including the Hispanic Heritage Leadership Award by the NFL, the Hispanic Marketing Lifetime Achievement Award by the San Diego Ad Club, Entrepreneur of the Year award by the San Diego Magazine, and Business Women of the Year from the National Latina Business Women Association (NLBWA).', 
      ', Kathy McKim', 
      ', Vice President, External Affairs', 
        AT&T', 
      ', u"Kathy leads the company's Statewide Constituency Relations organization and Operations. Her 29 year career at AT&T includes positions in Marketing, Sales, Operations and External Affairs. Kathy received her Bachelor's degree in Psychology and Public Affairs from the University of Denver and her MBA from the University of San Francisco. She has also completed Data Communications certifications from within AT&T and at UC Berkeley.", 
      ', u"Kathy was appointed by the Governor to the California Volunteer Commission in 2014. She is currently board chair for City Year Sacramento, Teach for America and College Track. She is an active board member of the California Asian Chamber and St. John's Program for Real Change and a partner with Social Venture Partners focused on improving education outcomes for students. She has received the Sacramento Business Journal Women Who Mean Business Award and is a senior fellow through the Mountain Valley Chapter of American Leadership Forum. Kathy has been recognized for her work in the areas of education and mentoring. She serves as a mentor for many young professionals both internal to AT&T and externally in the community.", 
      ', She is an avid runner, enjoys traveling and spending time with her husband and daughter.', 
      ', Tiffany Roberts', 
      ', Director of Fuels and Climate Policy', 
        Western States Petroleum Association', 
      ', u"Tiffany Roberts is the Director of Fuels and Climate Policy for Western States Petroleum Association. Ms. Roberts is responsible for working with association members to provide policy advice and to help craft a strategic approach to legislative and regulatory activities such as the Low Carbon Fuel Standard and climate policy regulations such as cap-and-trade. An economist by training, Ms. Roberts has spent almost a decade advising California policy makers on energy and climate policy. She started her career in energy policy at the local government level conducting economic analysis of local energy and climate policies. She then transitioned to the state's Legislative Analyst's Office \u2013 the non-partisan advisor to the California Legislature \u2013 where she served as the LAO's Senior Energy and Climate Policy Analyst for five years. While at the LAO, she authored numerous reports on traditional and alternative energy policies as well as other high-profile issues such as California's cap-and-trade program. She later served as a policy consultant to the Senate Republican Caucus where she advised Senators on environmental and climate policy issues. Her work has been widely cited and quoted in publications such as The Wall Street Journal, Scientific American, Bloomberg's Business Week, The New York Post, The Los Angeles Times, The Washington Examiner and others. In 2010, she received an award for significantly influencing California's climate policy debate. Ms. Roberts holds a B.A. in International Studies from the University of Southern MS and an M.A. in Economics from CA State University \u2013 Hayward.", 
      ', Crystal Guzman', 
      ', District Principal Auditor, Irvine District', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Crystal Guzman is the District Principal Auditor of the Irvine District office for the Board of Equalization. Crystal graduated from California State University, Fullerton with a Bachelor's of Arts degree in Accounting. Crystal began her career with the Board of Equalization as a student assistant over 18 years ago in the Santa Ana District Office. She then promoted through the various ranks as an auditor before being promoted to supervision and now as the District Principal Auditor. She oversees the audit program for the largest district office in California which encompasses all of Orange County.", 
      ', u"During Crystal's career she has had the opportunity to assist numerous taxpayers and motivate staff to achieve their career goals. Crystal is married and has two teenage sons. She and her husband enjoy their free time with family activities and traveling to National Parks. Her greatest joy is watching her children thrive in their education, sports and life.", 
      ', Lila Fedler', 
      ', Technical Assistant to the Advocate', 
        California Franchise Tax Board', 
      ', u"Lila Fedler is currently Technical Assistant to the Advocate and is the Franchise Tax Board's Education & Outreach Specialist responsible for education and outreach efforts designed for taxpayer, business and the tax practitioner community. She is an Enrolled Agent with the Internal Revenue Service. Lila began her career with the Franchise Tax Board in 1980, and has a broad range of experience covering both personal income and corporation tax laws. She has experience as a Protest Hearing Officer, Auditor, and as an Audit Technical Specialist and Reviewer. In addition to more than 30 years of experience with FTB, Lila worked in the private sector as a Senior Manager of state and local tax practice. Lila works directly with the Taxpayers' Rights Advocate to assure that the taxpayers have been afforded the protection of the Taxpayer Bill of Rights.", 
      ', Lorena Fernandez', 
      ', Area Program Manager', 
        California Employment Development Department', 
      ', u"Lorena Fernandez-Peña, Area Audit Program Manager of the San Diego Tax Office, has over 24 years of Tax Branch experience. She is responsible to manage field operations to ensure the integrity of the Audit Program, promote voluntary compliance with the provisions of the California Unemployment Insurance Code (CUIC) and safeguard workers' rights. Lorena's diverse career has allowed her to develop wide-ranging skills and a comprehensive view of Tax Branch and Field Operations. She began her EDD career in the Audit Program in the San Bernardino Audit Office after receiving her Bachelor's degree in Business Administration.", 
      ', Regina Lauridsen', 
      ', Stakeholder Liaison', 
        Internal Revenue Service', 
      ', u"Regina Lauridsen works with the IRS as a Stakeholder Liaison in SBSE Communications and Stakeholder Outreach. Regina has held a variety of positions during her career at IRS including Tax Auditor and Revenue Officer. Currently Regina's duties include coordinating education and outreach events for payroll, practitioner and industry stakeholders. One of her assignments also includes working on the Issue Management and Resolution program which addresses systemic concerns about IRS policies, practices and procedures.", 
      ', Allison Soares, Esq.', 
      ', Senior Associate Attorney', 
        RJS Law', 
      ', u"Allison Soares is a Senior Associate Attorney at RJS LAW. She represents individuals and entities before the Internal Revenue Services (IRS), Franchise Tax Board (FTB), Employment Development Department (EDD), and State Board of Equalization (SBOE). She assists clients in the resolution of problems with federal, state, and local taxing authorities and also performs various tax-based calculations as well as tax related research to ensure compliance with state and federal law. Ms. Soares is an Adjunct Professor for Tax Procedures, Practice and Ethics at San Diego State University Charles W. Lamden School of Accountancy. She is also a member of the Lawyer's Club and SDCBA Ask-A-Lawyer Volunteer.", 
      ', 
      ', Tracy Borkum', 
      ', Principal', 
        Urban Kitchen Group', 
      ', Tracy Borkum is the Principal of Urban Kitchen Group. Tracy is nationally recognized for her CUCINA collection of restaurants, which showcases freshly inspired cuisine and imaginatively designed interiors. Over the course of two decades in the industry, Tracy has earned a reputation as an innovative thinker and risk taker. In 1995 Borkum opened her first venture, the iconic Kensington Grill and has since opened numerous restaurants including the Urban Kitchen Catering and CUCINA urbana, a California-inspired Italian restaurant and wine shop. This new value-driven concept offered guests an approachable menu with locally sourced ingredients and fine-dining service in a strikingly visual environment\u2014without breaking the bank. Borkum now has multiple locations in San Diego and Orange County.', 
      ', Borkum has been acknowledged as one of San Diego's top restaurateurs receiving numerous awards including a 2004 San Diego Women Who Mean Business Award by the SD Business Journal and a 2006 and 2012 San Diego Magazine's "50 People to Watch". She is the co-chair of San Diego Restaurant Week and sits on the Executive Board of the San Diego Chapter of the California Restaurant Association.', 
      ', Nicole Abraham', 
      ', Vice President of Marketing', 
        Luna Grill', 
      ', Nicole is responsible for leading all facets of marketing for Luna Grill, including brand positioning, communication strategies, advertising, public relations, creative/design, social media, local restaurant marketing and events. Nicole is a board member of the California Restaurant Association and comes to Luna Grill with over 13 years of restaurant leadership experience. Nicole is an integral part of the leadership team in driving collaborative efforts, position and relevance for all departments and restaurants. Nicole holds a Bachelor of Science Degree from San Francisco State University in Business and Marketing.', 
      ', Angie Weber', 
      ', Proprietor/Owner', 
        Cowboy Star Restaurant & Butcher Shop', 
      ', Angie Weber is the proprietor of Cowboy Star Restaurant & Butcher Shop. Cowboy Star has been ranked "The Best Steakhouse in San Diego" and in 2016 Zagat awarded Cowboy Star the title of #11th "coziest restaurant" in America.', 
      ', Angie is a 22 year veteran of the food and beverage industry. She started as a bartender and with the guidance of key mentors worked her way up to being a successful entrepreneur. Prior to owning a restaurant Angie was a leader in the spirits industry, working on brands like Skyy Vodka, Effen Vodka, and currently works as the Director of National Accounts for Monin Gourmet Flavorings.', 
      ', Angie and her partners now manage a staff of 95 employees and locations in California and Colorado. Angie also serves on the California Restaurant Association Board of Directors and a member of the chapters Government Affairs Committee.', 
      ', Lucy Stanci, 
      ', Vice Presidents of Operations', 
        Beshay Enterprises', 
      ', u"Lucy Stanciu is the Vice President of Operations for Beshay Enterprises in Southern California. Under her leadership, Beshay Enterprises grew to operate & oversee 61 locations (Corner Bakery Café \u2013 Jack in the Box \u2013 Denny's Restaurants) in southern California For the past 20 years, she held various positions from Team member, Assistant Manager, Restaurant Manager, and District Manager to currently Vice President of Operations. At Beshay Enterprises Lucy is actively engaged in the company's growth and expansion in Southern California. She is passionate about people development, personal and professional. She has developed and mentored many individuals for advancement to higher positions with more responsibility. She has influenced a culture of respect, trust, and loyalty. Today she directs a range of innovative and strategic initiatives for Jack in the Box, Corner Bakery Café & Denny's Restaurants. Lucy remains dedicated to building a company focused on quality emphasizing fast, fresh, handmade food served in warm & welcoming environment by people you can trust. She has always been an active member in the local community, participating in organizations like Big Brother Big Sister, Student of the Month program, Boys & Girls Club of Temecula, Relay for Life and San Diego and Temecula Chamber of Commerce.", 
      ', Mary Gendron', 
      ', Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer', 
        Qualcomm Incorporated', 
      ', u"Mary Gendron is senior vice president and chief information officer for Qualcomm Incorporated. In this role, Gendron will lead Qualcomm's global IT organization, driving operational excellence within the IT function and across the enterprise, as well as collaborating with the executive and business unit leadership teams to ensure Qualcomm continues to incorporate forward-looking technology solutions into the business, products, and strategies to achieve Company business goals.", 
      ', Prior to joining Qualcomm, Gendron served as senior vice president and chief information officer at Hospira, a leading global pharmaceutical and medical device company. Gendron brings more than 25 years of IT experience to the role, with expertise in developing and executing IT and talent-focused strategies, services and plans. She has led complex global organizations, driving proactive business strategies required to develop differentiation and has consistently generated customer, shareholder and employee value. Prior to working at Hospira, Gendron served as CIO at Celestica International, Inc., and served in other senior IT leadership positions at companies like The Nielsen Company, Motorola and Bell Canada.', 
      ', u"Gendron holds a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from McGill University in Canada.", 
      ', Regina Brown', 
      ', Small Business Development Manager', 
        San Diego County International Airport Authority', 
      ', Regina Brown joined the San Diego International Airport Authority in September 2015 as the Manager of Small Business Development. Regina oversees the SBD team, and serves as the Authority's Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Liaison Officer. Regina has a passion for "Inclusion and Diversity".', 
      ', Regina is the former Executive Director of the Congressional Black Caucus Political Institute. She has over 20 years of experience in Management, Human Resources Services, Business and Organizational Development.', 
      ', In addition to her accomplishments in Business Development, Regina has developed a website that assists military spouses with self-development. She is an active member of SHRM (Society for Human Resources Management), and NNA (National Notary Assn.). She resides on several local Military boards; to include: Co- Chair for CORE (Continuum of Resources Education), and HSM-49 Officer Spouses Club Advisor. Regina is the former President of HOSC (Helicopter Officers Spouses Club), and Vice President of NOSC (Naval Officers Spouses Club).', 
      ', Regina holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Management and a Masters in Human Resources Management. Regina is passionate about helping businesses make the most of their resources and talents, and believes that customers and GOOD customer service are vital to any business that intends to grow.', 
      ', Georgina Escamilla', 
      ', Manager of Business outreach', 
        Southern California Edison', 
      ', u"Georgina Escamilla serves as Manager of Southern California Edison's Business Outreach team. In this role she oversees strategy and field outreach for SCE's vast and diverse small business customers within Edison's 50,000 square mile territory. Her team of account managers strategically align with business, trade and ethnic organizations, to educate customers about energy efficiency, rates, tools, and programs, offering services in seven languages.", 
      ', u"Georgina has been with Edison nearly 20 years. She previously served as Edison's Economic Development project manager for Gateway Cities and San Gabriel Valley, where her focus was on retaining, expanding and attracting manufacturing companies to those regions by offering consultation and resources to assist customers in making well-informed location decisions.", 
      ', u"Her previous work at Edison includes positions as an Account Executive, working with leadership from the small business community to promote Edison's programs and services. She has also worked in SCE's Transmission and Distribution Department on regulatory and legislative issues.", 
      ', u"Georgina holds a Master's degree in Public Administration, and a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism, both from the University of Southern California. She is currently a board member of the Southeast Los Angeles County Workforce Development Board, and the Los Angeles Local Development Corporation.", 
      ', Georgina and her family reside in Whittier, CA.', 
      ', Arnice Lamb', 
      ', Manager of Supplier Diversity and Sustainability', 
        The Walt Disney Company', 
      ', u"Arnice Lamb is a Manager of Supplier Diversity and Sustainability, supporting all Enterprise Construction, Supply Chain, Disneyland Resort and Walt Disney Imagineering as well as managing Disney 2nd Tier Program, and has been with The Walt Disney Company since February of 1991. Prior to joining Disney, Mrs. Lamb held a number of managerial positions with organizations such as Shiley, Inc., a division of Pfizer Inc.; Medtronic Cardiopulmonary, a division of Medtronic, Inc.' and Bard Cardiopulmonary, a division of C.R. Bard, Inc. For several years, Mrs. Lamb has been instrumental in the development, implementation and compliance of Minority and Women Business Enterprise programs.", 
      ', u"Mrs. Lamb is a native of the state of Ohio. She attended Whiting College in Cleveland, where she received a Bachelor's of Science degree in Business Administration. Later Mrs. Lamb completed extension courses in Purchasing & Material Management at Fullerton College in Fullerton, CA, and Contract Administration at University of California, Irvine.", 
      ', An active participant in numerous organizations, Mrs. Lamb serves as Chairwomen for the corporate advisory committees of the American Indian Chamber of Commerce of California, Board of Directors for Women Business Enterprise Council \u2013 West, Corporate Advisory to the National Association of Minority Contractors & Women Construction Owners & Executives, and the National Minority Supplier Development Council, among others.', 
      ', Lisa Castillo', 
      ', Associate Director', 
        AT&T Supplier Diversity', 
      ', u"Associate Director Lisa Castillo is responsible for fostering key stakeholder relationships between AT&T Supplier Diversity and the minority communities across the west coast. Over the last 20 years Castillo has garnered an extensive background in marketing, sales, and channel management. Her deep knowledge and understanding of Wireless, Consumer, Small Business, Government/Education and Global Business segments has enabled her to provide optimal positioning of qualified suppliers into the supply chain. Currently Ms. Castillo is a board member of the Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council and WBEC-West, as well as serves on the Corporate Advisory Board with the Disabled Veteran's Business Alliance and Astra's Best Practices Committee. She earned her Bachelors of Science Finance degree from California State University of Sacramento and Masters of International Business from The Garvin School of International Management in Glendale, Arizona. Ms. Castillo is a California native and currently resides in Dublin, California with her husband.", 
      ', Virginia Gomez', 
      ', Chief Executive Officer and President', 
        Southern California Minority Supplier Development Council', 
      ', u"Virginia Gomez is CEO, President of the Southern California Minority Supplier Development Council (SCMSDC), a minority advocacy, corporate membership organization focused on advancing business connections for minority-owned businesses with large, majority corporations. SCMSDC is among the largest of 23 councils affiliated with a national organization based in New York, the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), serving 13 Southern California counties, and operating under four pillars: Ethnic minority certification, professional development, connections and advocacy. Prior to joining SCMSDC, Gomez held various management positions at the Los Angeles Department of Water & Power (the nation's largest municipally-owned utility), directing and managing personnel in budgetary, EEO, HR, contract compliance and supplier diversity, among others.", 
      ', Barbara Ybarra', 
      ', Executive Director', 
        One San Diego', 
      ', With 20 years of experience working with non-profits and public policy, Barbara Ybarra serves as Executive Director of One San Diego. In her early years, Barbara learned the fundamentals of organizing and community outreach from her grandfather, Cesar Chavez.', 
      ', Barbara worked as the National Program Director for Eureka Communities, an executive training organization for non-profit leaders in San Diego, Los Angeles, Detroit, Boston, San Francisco and Washington D.C. and with the Annie E. Casey Foundation as a consultant for their Neighborhood Development Initiative. This led to a $500,000 economic development grant to the Bronze Triangle area of San Diego.', 
      ', Barbara was a founder of the Cesar E. Chavez Commemorative Breakfast, has served as a Puente mentor, and writes and speaks frequently around the state about her grandfather. Barbara is a graduate of University of California, Santa Barbara with a degree in Political Science and holds an MBA.', 
      ', For more information on One San Diego visit our website at ', www.1sandiego.org', .', 
      ', Leah Goodwin', 
      ', Director of Museum and Education', 
        California Center for the Arts, Escondido', 
      ', u"Leah was the first Director of Education at the California Center for the Arts! She held that position from 1994 to 2000, paving the way for the Center's ongoing success in school and community collaborations and educational and cultural partnerships. After leaving the Center in 2000, Leah held important leadership roles in the Arts, including Education Director for the Museum of Children's Art in Oakland, President and COO of VSA Arts of California, Director of Art Programs and Fundraising Strategies at Aesthetics, Inc., and Director of Visual and Performing Arts at Jacobs Center for Neighborhood Innovation in San Diego.", 
      ', Leah serves as a Commissioner on the Status of Women for the County of San Diego. She is an accomplished and published poet and writer, including significant contributions to the book entitled "Teaching English Language Learners through the Arts" published in 2001. Leah's SUAVE program, which trained teachers to use the arts to teach a variety of school subjects) became a state-wide model for teachers and was widely implemented in local schools in Escondido, Fallbrook, Oceanside, San Marcos, and Valley Center. Leah re-joined the Center in November of 2014, and accepted the position of Director of Museum and Education in July of 2015.', 
      ', Diane Peabody Straw', 
      ', Executive Director', u"
        Women's Museum of California", 
      ', u"Diane Peabody Straw began fundraising early in her career, focusing on an international nonprofit that provided medical aid and career training to women and children in developing nations. She has since been involved in fundraising, event planning, communications, and volunteer management for political campaigns and nonprofits. Diane became passionate about the Women's Museum of California after being asked to serve on the Board of Directors, where she served as Funds Development Chair. Over the last year she has transitioned into the role of Executive Director.", 
      ', Maja Muric', 
      ', Manager', 
        Galactic Unite, a Virgin Galactic Initiative', 
      ', Maja Muric is a former professional tennis player and Olympian from Croatia, a war torn country that has inspired her to drive positive change around the world. Maja played on WTA Tour until the end of her career in 2000 when she dedicated the next 12 years to helping improve the quality of life for children with cancer. These experiences inspired her to expand her work and start her own not for profit organization in 2005 called Humanitarian Wave that works towards creating lasting positive effect in the quality of life of people and communities in need. In 2012 Maja took on her current role as the lead of Galactic Unite, a Virgin Galactic initiative that is harnessing the power of space to inspire and support the next generation to help solve many of our greatest global challenges.', 
      ', Maja is passionate about Galactic Unite and its unique opportunity to help change the perception of our place on this planet and in the cosmos through removing the barriers which have historically kept all but the elite few firmly on this side of the final frontier.', 
      ', MyMy L, 
      ', Public Affairs Manager', 
        Cox Communications', 
      ', u"As Public Affairs Manager for Cox Communications in California, MyMy Lu is responsible for developing and executing programs that align closely with Cox's corporate strategy for diversity and social responsibility and managing initiatives for Cox's local government and community affairs. Most recently, MyMy developed Cox's broadband adoption program, Connect2Compete, and is leading national efforts to close the digital divide in underserved communities.", 
      ', u"MyMy has been with Cox Communications since 2008, during which time she also worked with Cox's HR Team to implement mentoring programs and employee relations initiatives. Prior to joining Cox Communications, MyMy spent time as a program manager for the University of California, San Diego and the University of California, Los Angeles, helping to design executive education and research programs.", 
      ', MyMy currently serves on the executive team for the East Village Association (EVA) and The Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association (CCBA), as a board member of the Asian Business Association of San Diego and the San Diego Chamber of Commerce Young Leaders, and as an advisor to the San Diego Chapter of the National Association of Asian American Professionals.', 
      ', u"MyMy received her Bachelor's Degree from UCLA with a double major in Psychology & Chinese Studies and a minor in Cognitive Science. A long-time resident of Southern California, MyMy speaks Cantonese, Mandarin and Vietnamese, and enjoys sports and time with her family and friends in Orange County and San Diego.", 
      ', Tony Knott', 
      ', Information Officer I', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', u"Tony Knott is as an Information Officer with the State Board of Equalization's (BOE) 4th District in Irvine, CA. Tony works as an agency liaison to Chambers of Commerce and Legislative Action Committees; and also works with the BOE Outreach Team to provide relevant information about state sales and use tax regulations, exemptions, and agency resources available for industry associations, non-profits organizations and small business owners.", 
        Prior to joining the BOE Tony had an extensive career in both journalism and public relations. He worked as a military journalist and public relations specialist for the Department of Defense where he was instrumental in developing public relations policy and communications efforts related to the Pearl Harbor Memorial, Armed Forces Day, Hawaii Military Week, and other news events involving military units in Hawaii, Yemen, Libya and Iraq.', 
      ', Tony is also a seasoned editor, writer and researcher who held various leadership and creative roles for the Press-Telegram, Arizona Republic, and The Washington Post newspapers over a twenty-year career.', 
      ', Claire Flores', 
      ', Retail Manager', 
        Philosophy Brands \u2013 COTY, Inc.', 
      ', Claire Flores is the Retail Manager for the Orange County/Inland Empire market for COTY \u2013 Philosophy. Flores has been in the retail industry for over 18 years in the capacity of various management positions. Prior to joining COTY \u2013 Philosophy, Flores supported Nordstrom in leadership roles for the Los Angeles, Orange County stores.', 
      ', During her Nordstrom employ, she achieved the prestigious "Customer Service All Star Award" in 2013. Claire is a proud "kidney donor" and spends her free time as a "UNOS \u2013 United Network for Organ Sharing Ambassador", speaking to the importance of organ donation to save lives!', 
      ', Francis Barraza', 
      ', Director of Appointments and Special Projects', 
        Office of San Diego Mayor Kevin L. Faulconer', 
      ', u"Francis Barraza is the Director of Appointments and Special Projects for Mayor Kevin L. Faulconer. She formerly served as the Executive Director of the Republican Party of San Diego County, State Director of Hispanic Initiatives for the Republican National Committee, and most recently as the Campaign Manager for the Mayor's successful reelection campaign. She serves on the board of the Republican National Lawyers Association \u2013 San Diego, as well as the California Women's Leadership Association. She is a native San Diegan and received her bachelor's degree from UC Irvine and law degree from UC Davis.", 
      ', Khea Pollard ', 
      ', Community Representative', 
        Office of San Diego County Supervisor Greg Cox', 
      ', u"Khea Pollard is a Community Representative for Supervisor Greg Cox. She coordinates the Supervisor's Neighborhood Reinvestment and Community Enhancement programs and represents him in the community with special focus on the neighborhoods in Southeastern San Diego.", 
      ', u"A native San Diegan, Khea graduated from the University of San Diego with a B.A. in English and a B.A. in Ethnic Studies. She held multiple leadership positions during her time at USD and is a recipient of the prestigious Who's Who Among Students in American Universities & Colleges, an award recognizing academic excellence, leadership in extracurricular activities, citizenship and services to the school, and potential for future achievement.", 
        She is a proud member of the Black American Political Association of California, Parliamentarian of the San Diego County Young Professionals and a RISE Urban Leadership Program Fellow. She aspires to attend law school in the future to study Critical Race Theory, aiming to one day combine community organizing and law for a career in advocacy for communities of color.', 
      ', Paige Haskin', 
      ', Legislative Aide', 
        Office of Assemblyman Travis Allen', 
      ', u"Paige Haskin is a Legislative Aide for Assemblyman Travis Allen, a California State Legislator. She has excelled in her political career as shown through her work on campaigns, fundraising, and policy. After graduating from San Diego State University in 2013, Paige worked for the California Republican Party to play a pivotal role in electing Kevin Faulconer to Mayor of San Diego. She continued into the role of Finance Director for the San Diego Republican Party where she challenged the status quo, and helped with grassroots politics. In 2015, Paige started working in the California State Capitol with Assemblyman Allen, acting as his Legislative Director. During her time in the Capitol, she has been instrumental in staffing the Member on multiple committees, issue areas, and Floor Session. She has also begun the continuation of her education through entering the Master's program at the University of Southern California.", 
      ', 
      ', Mark R. Mills', 
      ', President', 
        San Diego Public Leadership Institute', 
      ', Mark R. Mills is President of the San Diego Public Leadership Institute, a nonpartisan program for business-minded leaders who are interested in exploring public leadership. ', 
        Mills has spent 30 years successfully working with leaders in business, politics and public affairs to communicate their great ideas, engage audiences and move public opinion. He also co-developed and directed leadership programs that have cultivated future business-experienced political leaders in the U.S. and emerging civic-minded business leaders in a developing country.', 
      ', Mills has extensive communications and leadership/management experience on numerous political campaigns, including serving as message strategist for a successful and historic repeal referendum in Florida that saved taxpayers $25 billion.', 
      ', u"He served as deputy staff director and then staff director of the number-three ranking U.S. Senate Republican leadership office - the Republican Conference - (1998/99 - during the trial of President Clinton), which (retired) U.S Sen. Connie Mack of Florida chaired. Mark served as Mack's communications director during much of the Senator's tenure. He was twice named one of the 50 most influential Capitol Hill staffers by the newspaper Roll Call.", 
      ', Christina Vincent', 
      ', Manager, Economic Development', 
        City of San Diego', 
      ', u"Christina Vincent is an award winning economic development professional who over the past three years has been working as the Economic Development Manager for the City of Carlsbad, located in north San Diego County along the 78 Corridor. Christina has 16 years of economic development and redevelopment experience leading to the creation of jobs and economic health for several municipalities and business districts. As a San Diego native, Christina earned her Master's Degree in City Planning, certificate in Community and Economic Development and a Bachelor's Degree in Applied Arts and Sciences from San Diego State University. Go Aztecs! Prior to working for the City of Carlsbad, she spent six years in Colorado as the Redevelopment Program Manager and Economic Development Administrator for the City of Fort Collins and City of Thornton, respectively. She directed and managed the activities of the Urban Renewal Authorities, executed public/private projects, created three redevelopment project areas while managing four existing areas. In 2010, Christina was recognized as one of the Top 25 Most Influential Young Professionals by ColoradoBiz Magazine for her efforts in Fort Collins, Colorado.", 
      ', Prior to her work in Colorado, Christina was the Executive Director of the College Area Business Improvement District in San Diego for five years she got her start in economic development with the Adams Avenue Business Association. She is a graduate of the LEAD San Diego Impact class of 2015 and the Herbert G. Klein award winner for leadership. Christina currently resides in north county San Diego with her eight year old son, Jonah.', 
      ', Pamela White', 
      ', Senior Economic Development Coordinator', 
        City of Santee', 
      ', u"Pamela White has over 30 years of municipal government experience in economic development, redevelopment, and housing program administration, with expertise in property disposition, developer negotiations, marketing and public information. As Senior Economic Development Coordinator for the City of Santee, she is responsible for economic development and business recruitment and retention. White has held various positions with the City of Santee since 1985, including Director of Economic Development and Housing, Director of Redevelopment, and Risk Manager. Prior to that, she served as Public Information Officer for the City of Cathedral City, and as Assistant to the Executive Director of the Coachella Valley Association of Governments. She holds a Master's Degree in Public Administration and a Bachelor of Science Degree in Business Administration.", 
      ', Jo Marie Diamond', 
      ', Chief Executive Officer', 
        San Diego East County Economic Development Council', 
      ', u"Jo Marie Diamond is President and CEO of the East County Economic Development Council, a full service economic development organization serving primary industry in San Diego's eastern sub-region. When projects support their core mission of cultivating a vibrant, sustainable economy in San Diego's East County, the Council takes on regional, statewide, and national projects. She shepherded one of ECEDC's flagship project, the Connectory.com Network, an online resource of company capabilities and capacities, from concept formation through current expansion. She and her team are leading a current Defense project to develop a big-data driven market intelligence capability to align defense solicitations more closely to the natural way industry does business.", 
      ', u"In 2014, Ms. Diamond became the San Diego region's representative on the Executive Board for Advanced Manufacturing Partnership \u2013 Southern California (AMP SoCal), one of only 12 federally designated Investing in Manufacturing Community Partnership (IMCP) consortia. ", u"
        Ms. Diamond was honored with the Women in Leadership Award in a non-profit by the East County Economic Chamber of Commerce in November 2013. Diamond has promoted the healthy economic climate and an enhanced quality of life in San Diego's East County region.", 
      ', Ms. Diamond has 30 years of experience in providing technology and industry forecasting, industry research and analysis, and program planning/management to companies, local and federal government agencies, and to non-profit organizations. Prior to joining the ECEDC, Ms. Diamond was principal with Business Change Catalysts (BC2), a technology assessment and systems analysis consulting firm and before that a principal at B-K Dynamics, a DoD contractor.', 
      ', u"Ms. Diamond received a Bachelor's degree in Biochemistry from the Catholic University of America as well as certificates in Information Retrieval Systems, Database Development and Technology Assessment.", 
      ', Maryann Edwards', 
      ', Mayor Pro Tem', 
        City of Temecula', 
      ', Mayor Pro Tem Edwards has been serving the community of Temecula on City Council for over 10 years. She has served as Mayor twice in 2009 and 2014 where she worked with City leaders to lead one of the most recognizable municipal economic recoveries from the economic downturn. She has represented Southwest Riverside in numerous regional leadership positions. Mayor Pro Tem Edwards is very involved in the local community having served as Director for the Temecula Theatre Foundation, a Director for the Susan G. Komen Foundation, Inland Empire Affiliate, President of the Assistance League of Temecula Valley, and an active member of the Rotary Club of Temecula. Maryann is currently Senior District Representative for California State Senator Jeff Stone.', 
      ', Eva Mondaca and Lisa Blalock', 
      ', Co-Founders', 
        Moms Helping Moms Build A Business®', 
      ', Eva Mondaca and Lisa Blalock are former corporate leaders turned entrepreneurs. As moms and businesswomen they are passionate about helping other moms experience success and co-founded Moms Helping Moms Build A Business®. Our Mission is to educate, inspire and empower women to build a successful business from home. We do this by empowering them to build value in themselves and their business through education, events and relationship networking.', 
      ', Angela Watts', 
      ', Founder', 
        Slyde Handboards', 
      ', u"Company owners and husband-and-wife team Steve and Angela Watts will share the story of Slyde Handboards, which they developed from a small California start-up to a million-dollar enterprise. Angela, brought the business idea to ABC's Shark Tank, where they secured funding from Mark Cuban and Ashton Kutcher.", 
      ', u"Angela Watts hails from Rhode Island, where she spent her summers on the ocean, sailing and bodysurfing. Her passion for sports, fitness and health translated into a bachelor's degree in physical education and health education from Plymouth State University, from which she graduated magna cum laude. She moved to California three different times before making Los Angeles her permanent home in 2011, where she worked for two different startups managing operations and marketing. In 2013, she joined Steve at Slyde Handboads, where she wears multiple hats including business planning and development, customer service, logistics, sales and finance.", 
      ', Joe McCloskey', 
      ', Co-Founder', 
        Helping Women Help Themselves', 
      ', Over the past 35 years, Joe McCloskey has been involved in virtually all aspects of running a business. His experience includes Fortune 500 companies as well as smaller private companies. He has held numerous senior management positions in several companies, including President & CEO of Specialty Foods Group, Hampton, VA, and President of Jif-Pak Manufacturing, Vista, CA. In 2012, he co-founded Helping Women Help Themselves with his wife, Debby. Their 501(c)3 organization is dedicated to providing education and business support to help women successfully own and operate their own small business. He has written "A Practical Guide for Creating a Successful Small Business".', 
      ', Anna Davison', 
      ', Vice President, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations', 
        Bridgepoint Education', 
      ', Anna Davison is vice president of corporate communications and investor relations for Bridgepoint Education. Davison has expertise in strategic messaging, public relations, creative media campaigns, crisis communications, social media, employee communications and intranet management. Prior to joining Bridgepoint Education, Davison was director of corporate communications for AMN Healthcare and previously held several positions with other local San Diego companies, including FTD Companies (previously Provide Commerce) and government defense contractor Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC). Earlier this year, Davison was the recipient of the 2016 Communicator of the Year award from the International Association of Business Communicators San Diego chapter.', 
      ', Anne Wenger', 
      ', Attorney', 
        McLaughlin Legal', 
      ', u"Anne handles all facets of Federal and California tax law. Anne focuses her practice in McLaughlin Legal's Tax and Estate Planning division, and also represents clients before all federal, state, and local agencies. Anne advises clients with regard to their fundamental estate plans (Trust, Wills, Durable Powers of Attorney and Advance Health Care Directives), as well as assists her clients in evaluating and implementing various tax strategies to help protect and preserve their assets. Originally from San Diego, Anne received her undergraduate education at the University of Notre Dame, graduated Magna Cum Laude from Gonzaga University School of Law, and obtained her Master of Laws degree (LL.M) in taxation from the University of San Diego.", 
      ', Tiffany Markus', 
      ', Director of Sales', 
        Cox Communications', 
      ', As the Director of Sales for Cox Business, Tiffany Markus oversees commercial product sales within the Small to Mid-Market customer segments. The Columbus, Ohio native has a passion for individual development and has been awarded for her involvement in mentoring programs. She has spent her entire career working on the business side of major telecommunications companies, giving her a unique perspective and distinct advantage.', 
      ', Mindy Bortness', 
      ', Vice President', 
        National Association of Women Business Owners, California', 
      ', Mindy is a recognized leader in guiding companies toward predictive hiring and retention of top talent as well as identifying and understanding how the organization itself can be better poised to navigate its stages of growth. Since 2002, Mindy has consulted with organizations such as A Wireless, BBB, McKinney Advisory, SDCBA, AltheaCMO, American Red Cross, Lincolnland Oil and IT Tech Pros.', 
      ', Mindy is certified in six "Sciences of Self" including DISC, Driving Forces and Emotional Intelligence. She is a WBEC-West Certified Woman-owned Business, current president of NAWBO-San Diego and VP of NAWBO-California. Mindy's charitable endeavors include working with adults/college students in career choice/transition and Dogs on Deployment \u2013 where you foster military pets while their owners are serving us overseas.', 
      ', Jenna Harris', 
      ', Director of Outreach and Policy', 
        Office of San Diego Council Member Chris Cate', 
      ', Jenna Harris leads community outreach efforts for the office of San Diego Councilmember Chris Cate, Sixth District. In her role as Director of Outreach, Jenna works closely with community members, businesses and non-profit organizations to ensure community needs are being met in a timely manner. Jenna also oversees policy items in the areas of infrastructure, military and veterans affairs and the city charter.', 
      ', u"Prior to joining Councilman Cate's Office, Jenna was Manager of Events and Operations for the San Diego County Taxpayers Association (SDCTA) where she oversaw daily financial operations and policy initiatives, and supported the Association's membership and outreach efforts along with planning and executing all of the Association's events, including the Golden Watchdog and Fleece Awards Dinner. In addition, Jenna was a Project Manager for Golden State Consultants, a political fundraising and consulting firm. Jenna is currently enrolled in LEAD San Diego's IMPACT program, and has volunteered her time with local dog rescues, Toys for Tots, and the San Marcos Unified Oversight Committee.", 
      ', Kristen Kane', 
      ', Deputy Director of California Competes', u"
        Governor's Office of Business and Economic Development", 
      ', u"Kristen Kane was appointed by Governor Brown in 2016 as the deputy director of the California Competes Tax Credit Program at the Governor's Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz). Kane served as tax counsel at the California Franchise Tax Board from 2010 to 2016, where she was a graduate legal assistant in 2008. She was an intern at the California State Board of Equalization Tax Appeals Assistance Program in 2010 and an attorney at the Legal Aid Society of San Diego from 2009 to 2010. Kane earned a Juris Doctor degree and LLM in taxation from the University of San Diego School of Law.", 
      ', Cheryl Brown', 
      ', Senior Business Advisor', 
        North San Diego Small Business Development Center', 
      ', Since June of 2007, Cheryl Brown has been a business advisor with the North San Diego SBDC as a Subject Matter Expert in Government Procurement with support services offered in the areas of Human Resources, Business Development, and Technology Commercialization. She has counseled over 1,500 small businesses resulting in over $100,000,000 awarded contracts with local, state, and federal agencies.', 
      ', As a small business owner herself, she brings a practical application approach to counseling focusing on moving small businesses forward every step of the way to achieve their goals. Mrs. Brown has been awarded the 2012 ASBDC State Star for the San Diego & Imperial SBDC Network, the 2010 SBA Women in Business Champion, as well as certificates of recognition from Assemblymembers, Senators, Members of Congress, and San Diego County Supervisors for her success and dedication to the small business community.', 
      ', Colleen Bourgeois', 
      ', Owner', 
        Bikram Yoga La Jolla', 
      ', Colleen Bourgeois is Owner of Bikram Yoga La Jolla & San Diego Water Ionizers/Tyent USA. Colleen is a certified hatha yoga instructor since 2001 and a small business owner since 2003. Bikram Yoga La Jolla is also home to Tyent Water Ionizers, a healthy drinking water choice. Colleen is a Mother of three grown children.', 
      ', Eldonna Lewis Fernandez', 
      ', Founder', 
        Dynamic Vision International, Inc.', 
      ', Eldonna is a retired Air Force veteran with 23 years of honorable military service. She is a negotiation and contracts expert with over 30 years of leadership, contracts management and negotiation experience. She has negotiated contracts from $1 to over $100 million both stateside and internationally. She was deployed to the Middle East after 911 and has years of experience in foreign acquisition.', 
      ', She is a subject matter expert in the Contracting Career Field and has developed and taught courses on Contract Claims, Negotiation and other aspects of Contracting. She was recently featured on Fox Business and has 7 years of extensive experience working for defense contractors in the Aerospace Industry. She holds a Top Secret security clearance and has been a trusted agent of the U.S. Government for 30 years.', 
      ', Vallery Belloso', 
      ', Chief Strategy Officer', 
        Accion', 
      ', u"Valery Belloso joined Accion, a nonprofit microlender providing business loans up to $75,000 and other support services to local entrepreneurs, in 2006. As Chief Strategy Officer, she is instrumental in leading the organization's business development strategy, managing key partnerships, overseeing strategic organizational projects and ensuring programmatic goals are being met effectively. She holds a Bachelor's in Business Administration from the University of San Diego and a Masters in Spanish Language and Literature from San Diego State University.", 
      ', Rosebell Murig, 
      ', Chief Executive Officer', 
        Fedcom Technology, Microsoft Expert Partner', 
      ', Rosebell Murigu is leading Microsoft partner and CEO of Fedcom Technology. Fedcom Technology is an IT service firm in San Diego that works exclusively with Small and Medium businesses and fully understands the unique challenges of Cyber Security.', 
      ', As an Information Technology executive Ms. Murigu has extensive experience and expertise in advanced hardware, software, operating systems and Virtualization Technology. As an accomplished professional she is committed to the leadership of an organization that offers a client-focused approach to high-quality IT support and management services.', 
      ', Prior to starting her own small business Ms. Murigu was IT Director for Coastal Credit Union, Inc. and worked at IBM. Ms. Murigu has a B.A. in Information Systems Security and MBA in Business commerce.', 
      ', Edna Murphy', 
      ', Deputy Director of Administration', 
        California State Board of Equalization', 
      ', Edna Murphy is the Deputy Director of Administration for the Board of Equalization where she has fiscal oversight of $60.4 billion in revenue collections, an estimated operating budget of $577 million, and 4,830 positions.', 
      ', u"Edna has over 25 years of state service experience that includes oversight and fiscal accountability for very controversial and high profile programs. She previously served as Chief over the Budget Section at Department of Developmental Services where she managed over $6.7 billion for Regional and Developmental Centers and as Assistant Director for the Budget Management Branch at Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, where she had fiscal oversight of an estimated $10 billion in general and federal funds. Earlier, she held a senior staff position at California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) where she was responsible for over $177 billion in investment portfolio of stocks, bonds, and real estate.", 
      ', u"Edna earned her undergraduate degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting from California State University, Sacramento, and her Master's degree in Business Administration from University of Phoenix.", 
      ', Edna is a native of Chicago, Illinois. She resides in Sacramento with her son, Derrick.', 
      ', Johanna Hester', 
      ', Special Assistant to the Executive Director', 
        UDW AFSCME Local 3930', 
      ', u"Johanna Hester's dedication to working families began in the 1990s when she successfully organized 2,000 recreation and park assistants in Los Angeles as Lead Organizer for AFSCME. Since her early organizing days, Johanna has become a formidable labor leader, champion for home care providers, and outspoken advocate for the immigrant and civil rights of workers. She currently represents the United Domestic Workers (UDW), is an International Vice President of AFSCME, and is National President of the Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance (APALA). Johanna also recently completed the Senior Executives in State and Local Government program with the Harvard Kennedy School.", 
      ', Alejandra Sotelo-Solis', 
      ', National City Council Member', 
      ', u"Alejandra Sotelo-is a second term Councilmember in National City Council and the Director of the UC San Diego Community Law Project, working with undergraduate students who are pursuing careers in Law and Public Policy. She oversees student recruitment, department budget, establishes and maintains relationships with community-based organizations and law schools across the Nation. She was formerly the Community Relations Coordinator for the UC San Diego Chancellor's Office. Previously, Alejandra served as District Director for San Diego Assembly Member Lori Saldaña and a Field Representative for Assembly Member Judy Chu.", 
      ', Alejandra has been an active member in the community. She is an active member of the San Diego Cesar E. Chavez Commemorative Committee and was Co-chair of the 2008 Parade Committee. She is active with San Diego MANA, a youth mentorship organization, and was Chair for the American Diabetes Association- Health Fair/Feria de Salud. She is also past President of the UCSD Chicano Alumni Association.', 
      ', Dana Whittaker', 
      ', Sales Manager', u"
        Pacific Sotheby's International Realty", 
      ', u"Dana Whittaker has been involved in the real estate industry since 2000, and brings extensive sales training and management experience to her role as the Carlsbad Sales Manager for Pacific Sotheby's International Realty. She has a true passion for coaching and consulting agents, teams and sales offices, and is certified as an Advanced Professional Coach by Quantum Leap Leadership. Many of Whittaker's clients have become some of the most successful agents in the industry, as recognized by the Wall Street Journal.", 
      ', u"In her previous position as Vice President for an independent brokerage in Carlsbad, CA, Whittaker recruited and drove sales for an increase of 431%. Looking to grow with the most extraordinary people in the business, Whittaker aligned with Pacific Sotheby's International Realty and is excited about utilizing the marketing opportunities that the Sotheby's International Realty brand offers to help her support her agents and office as well as to help increase the company's presence in North County.", 
      ', Whittaker currently serves on the Board of Directors for the North San Diego County Association of Realtors and is active in her community and with her family. Her philosophy on life is guided by Aristotle, "We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit."', 
      ', Tina Balch', 
      ', Past President', 
        Asian Real Estate Association of America, San Diego Chapter', 
      ', Born and raised in the Philippines, Tina graduated Bachelor of Science degree in Nursing, however, she followed a different calling in sales. Tina started in the pharmaceutical world for 8 years and garnered several awards that gave her the opportunity to visit US in 1997. She met and married the love of her life in 1999, and found her true calling in real estate in 2001!', 
      ', With over 15 years of experience in real estate, Tina formed a team and focuses her real estate career in lending, residential and distressed properties closing hundreds of transactions together.', 
      ', u"Tina's passion for service has led her to become AREAA (Asian Real Estate Association of America) San Diego Chapter President in 2015, an organization that focuses in sustaining home ownership in Asian American Community.", 
      ', Tina also owns a restaurant with her husband called happy sushi and a flourishing catering business while raising her two kids.', 
      ', Rebecca Pollack-Rude', 
      ', Realtor®, San Diego Realty Gals', u"
        Board Member, Women's Council of Realtors®, San Diego County", 
      ', Rebecca Pollack-Rude is Co-owner of the San Diego Realty Gals. The Brokerage specializes in residential sales and leasing. Rebecca and her business partner Michelle Hellerud started their "Boutique" Brokerage with the objective of proving all customers with great old fashioned personalized service. In addition, Rebecca serves on a number of industry committees including Grievance and Housing Opportunities to address the issues of affordable housing in the region.', 
      ', u"Rebecca moved to California back in 1998 after graduating from the University of Arizona with a degree in Communications and General Business. Rebecca is Director of Programs for the Women's Council of Realtors San Diego chapter and currently serves on their Board of Directors. In her spare time, she focuses on her 2 children, their extracurricular activities and making sure they learn to be good stewards of their community.", 
      ', Angela Avilez', 
      ', Realtor® and Past President', 
        National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals (NAHREP)', 
      ', Angela Avilez is Century 21 "Centurion Award Agent" putting her in the top 1% of agents in her brokerage. She is a sales professional with over ten years of real estate and mortgage financing experience. Angela has cultivated a distinctive professional style and a wide breadth of real estate expertise which continues to prove invaluable to her many satisfied clients. One of her greatest assets is her unique vision which enables her to think outside the box, she succeeds in completing the challenge of finding that special home. Angela was past president of the National Association of Hispanic Real Estate Professionals San Diego chapter and is currently a member of the board.', 
      ', Regina P. Brown', 
      ', President-Elect', u"
        Women's Council of Realtors®, San Diego County", 
      ', Regina P. Brown is the San Diego Women's Council of Realtors® 2016 President-Elect and broker/owner of California Coast & Country Homes with over 25 year of industry experience. Ms. Brown is a speaker, trainer, and technical writer for RealtyPro Advisor. Her first published book and ebook "Buy Your First Home" received rave reviews from both real estate agents and home buyers. Regina's new books for the real estate industry this year include: "Learn the Lingo of Houses", "2016 Goal Achiever", and "The PlayBook Game Plan".', 
      ', Ms. Brown earned B.A. in Real Estate from the Forbes School of Business at Ashford University and is a member of the North San Diego County Association of Realtors®. She is an e-Pro Realtor®, GREEN Certified, and loves learning.', 
      ', Jan Farley', 
      ', President', u"
        Women's Council of Realtors®, San Diego County", 
      ', u"Jan Farley was literally born for real estate. Her dad was broker/owner of Mahan Realty in Escondido, and she began working at the company when she was 16. From those beginnings, she was licensed at 19 and became a broker in 1988, owning and operating mortgage and real estate companies. In 2011 she became managing broker of Windermere SoCal in La Mesa, and now is managing broker at San Terra Properties. She has helped hundreds of clients buy and sell homes and arrange financing for their purchases and refi's over the years", 
      ', u"Jan currently serves as 2016 President of Women's Council of Realtors (WCR), San Diego County, and the 2016 Credentials Committee chair for California WCR. Jan also is the President-Elect of the Pacific Southwest Association of Realtors.", 
      ', Ana Martinez', 
      ', Associate Manager, State Political Outreach', 
        Facebook, Inc.', 
      ', u"Ana Martinez is the Associate Manager for State Political Outreach at Facebook. As a Facebook representative, she helps state elected officials better understand how the service works and what the company needs to remain an engine of economic growth in America. Ana also works with elected officials to introduce Facebook's safety and business development programs to local communities across the country. Prior to joining the State Public Policy team she worked in Facebook's Washington, DC office on the policy programs team focusing on small and medium sized businesses. Ana has advised thousands of small business owners from a variety of industries in both the United States and Mexico on how to use Facebook to grow their businesses, reach customers, and increase sales. She earned her J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law, and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in English Literature and Political Science from the University of Texas at El Paso. She is fluent in Spanish and based in Menlo Park, CA, at Facebook headquarters.", 
      ',  ', 
    ', 
  ', 
', 

', 

', 
', 
    
    ', 
    ', 
        ', Facebook', 
        ', Twitter', 
        ', YouTube', 
        ', RSS Feed', 
    ', 
    ', 
    
    ', 
	
    ', 
      ', Contact Information', 
      ', 
          ', Irvine Office', 
          16715 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 150', 
          Irvine, CA 92606', 
          Phone: 1-949-724-2578 | Fax: 1-949-724-2805
      ', 
      ', 
          ', Sacramento Office', 
          400 Capitol Mall, Suite 2580', 
          Sacramento CA 95814', 
          Phone: 1-916-323-9794 | Fax: 1-916-323-0546
      ', 
    ', 
    
    ', 
        
	', 
		', Disclaimer',  | ', Report Problems with Website',  | ', Conditions of Use',  | ', Accessibility',  | ', Privacy Policy', 
', 
	', 
		Copyright © 2015 State of California
	', 
', 

']