[
    
        ', 
    

    
', 
  ', Main Search', 
  ', Premium Members', 
  ', Advanced Search', 
  ',  Disclaimer', 
', 




  ', 
    

      ',  Cites 30 docs 
      
        - [', View All', ]
      
      ', 

      
          ', Section 9 in The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
          ', Section 20 in The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
          ', The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
          ', Article 17 in The Constitution Of India   1949', 
      
          ', Section 2 in The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
    

    

      ',  Citedby 32 docs
      
        - [', View All', ]
      
      ', 

      
          ', Tuples Educational Society ... vs State Of U.P. Through The ... on 31 March, 2008', 
      
          ', O.A.Nos.40 And 41 Of 2010: This Is ... vs Unknown on 3 December, 2010', 
      
          ', Corporate Office At 8Th Floor vs M/S. Saumya Mining Ltd on 8 July, 2014', 
      
          ', Corporate Office At 8Th Floor vs M/S. Saumya Mining Ltd on 8 July, 2014', 
      
          ', Corporate Office At 8Th Floor vs M/S. Saumya Mining Ltd on 8 July, 2014', 
      
    
    ', 
  ', 



', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
', 
', 


', 
        


', 

',  
  
', 

    ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      	   
    ', 
  

', 
  
    ', 
      ', User Queries', 
      
          ', cpc section', 
      
          ', civil procedure code under s 20 ', 
      
          ', section 20 of civil procedure code', 
      
          ', sec 20(a) of cpc', 
      
          ', section 20 cpc', 
      
          ', sec.20 cpc', 
      
          ', jurisdiction of HC', 
      
          ', jurisdiction of high court', 
      
          ', food corporation', 
      
          ', original jurisdiction', 
      
          ', nariman', 
      
          ', registered office', 
      
          ', patel roadways', 
      
          ', roadways', 
      
          ', arbitration petition ', 
      
          ', section 120', 
      
          ', jurisdiction of bombay high court', 
      
          ', petition under section 9 ', 
      
          ', section 2(e)', 
      
          ', clause 12 letters patent', 
      
    ', 
  
  
', 

', 
    Try out the ', Virtual Legal Assistant',  to take your notes as you use the website, build your case briefs and professionally manage your legal research. Also try out our ', Query Alert Service',  and enjoy an ad-free experience. Become a ', Premium Member',  for ', free for three months',  and pay only if you like it.

', 


    ', 
      ', Supreme Court of India', 
', Jindal Vijayanagar Steel (Jsw ... vs Jindal Praxair Oxygen Company Ltd on 29 August, 2006', Author: . A Lakshmanan', 

', Bench: Dr. Ar. Lakshmanan, Lokeshwar Singh Panta', 

',            CASE NO.:
Appeal (civil)  3773 of 2006

PETITIONER:
Jindal Vijayanagar Steel (JSW Steel Ltd.)

RESPONDENT:
Jindal Praxair Oxygen Company Ltd.

DATE OF JUDGMENT: 29/08/2006

BENCH:
Dr. AR. Lakshmanan & Lokeshwar Singh Panta

JUDGMENT:
', J U D G M E N T
(Arising out of SLP (C) No. 7078/2006)


Dr. AR. Lakshmanan, J.
', 

', 	Leave granted.
', 
', The above appeal was filed by the appellant seeking 
special leave to appeal against the final order dated 
02.03.2006 passed by the High Court of Bombay in Arbitration 
Petition No. 459 of 2004.  By the said order, the High Court, 
according to the appellant, has wrongly assumed jurisdiction 
to entertain petitions under ', Section 9',  of the Arbitration and 
', Conciliation Act', u", 1996 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') 
despite holding that the entire cause of action has arisen 
outside its territorial jurisdiction. 
", In other words, the appellant seek to impugn the 
judgment dated 02.03.2006 whereby the High Court has held 
that jurisdiction of the Court under the provisions of the 
', Arbitration Act',  may be assumed by a Court exercising 
jurisdiction in a place where no part of the cause of action has 
arisen, if the respondent being a Company has a Corporate 
Office at the place where the Court is moved.  
The facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as 
follows:
', The appellant was in the process of setting up an 
integrated steel plant having the capacity of 1.25 million 
tonnes of the manufacture of iron and steel in Bellary District, 
Karnataka.  For its manufacturing operations, the appellant 
required large quantities of industrial gases, namely, oxygen, 
nitrogen and argon for such production.  To this end, the 
appellant, in conjunction with M/s Praxair Pacific Limited 
decided to enter into agreements to incorporate the 
respondent-Company in Karnataka.  The respondent-
Company was to set up an Air Separation Plant (ASP) in the 
same complex in Bellary, Karnataka for the purpose of 
supplying the appellant with the required quantities of 
industrial gases. 
', The respondent-Company was incorporated in Bangalore 
with a 50:50% share holding between the appellant and the 
Praxair Pacific Limited, which was subsequently changed to 
26:74%.  On 19.02.1996, Pipeline Supply Agreement (PSA) 
was entered into between the appellant and the respondent at 
Bangalore wherein the respondent would supply to the 
appellant its requirement of industrial gases, namely, gaseous 
oxygen, gaseous nitrogen and the gaseous argon.  Product 
Supply Agreement was entered into between the respondent 
and Praxair India Private Limited (PIPL), a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Praxair Pacific Limited at Bangalore for supply of 
liquid oxygen, nitrogen and argon to PIPL.  This agreement 
was entered into on 01.06.1996.  As several disputes/issues of 
technical and commercial nature in relation to the 
implementation of the PSA and the performance of the ASPs 
had arisen between the parties, the representatives of the 
appellant, respondent, Praxair Pacific Limited, Praxair Inc. and 
PIPL made in Singapore to resolve the issues. 
On 23.06.2002, an agreement was arrived at between the 
parties (Settlement Agreement).  The Settlement Agreement 
was approved by the Board of Directors of both the parties in 
Bangalore.  The interpretation of the obligations of parties 
under various provisions of the Settlement Agreement 
including the above provisions and the PSA is presently in 
dispute in arbitration invoked by the respondent against the 
appellant. 
', Accordingly, the respondent implemented those 
provisions of the Settlement Agreement which were favourable 
to it, whilst delaying the implementation of terms favourable to 
the appellant.  As a result thereof in various issues/disputes 
including all power norms, reimbursement of excise duty and 
income-tax claims, maintenance of adequate quantities of 
suppliable liquids in the storage tanks of the respondent etc. 
arose between the parties. 
', To settle the disputes, the respondent invoked dispute 
resolution process pursuant to ', Article 17',  of the PSA by issuing 
a notice from Bellary, Karnataka to the appellant in Bellary 
Karnataka. 
', Article 17',  of the Dispute Resolution reads as follows:
"17.1.  In the event that a party to this Agreement has 
reasonable grounds to believe that the other Party 
hereto has failed to fulfill any obligations hereunder or, 
that its expectation of receiving due performance under 
this Agreement may be impaired, such Party will 
promptly notify the other party in writing of the 
substance of its belief.  The party receiving such notice 
must respond in writing within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of such notice and either provide evidence of 
cure of the condition specified, or provide an 
explanation of why is that its performance is in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, and also specify three (3) dates, all of which 
must be within thirty (30) days from the date of its 
response, for a meeting to resolve the dispute.  The 
claiming party will then select one (1) of the three (3) 
dates, and a dispute resolution meeting will be held at 
the place specified by the responding party.  Each party 
shall have the right to require that individuals 
representing Buyer and Seller who have the authority to 
execute this Agreement or amendments thereto, be in 
attendance at the dispute resolution meeting.  If the 
parties cannot, in good faith discussions, resolve their 
dispute, they shall submit the dispute to arbitration in 
the manner set forth below in ', Article 17.2

17.2', 	Any dispute, controversy, or claim arising out of or 
relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination, 
non-performance, interpretation of the respective rights 
and liabilities of the parties under the Agreement; or 
invalidity thereof which cannot be fully and 
satisfactorily resolved or settled by the parties hereto 
pursuant to ', Section 17', .1 shall, at the request of either 
party, be submitted to, and be settled by arbitration, 
which shall, except to the extent provided herein, be 
held in accordance with the Rules of the U.N. 
Commission of International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) 
("Rules") in effect on the date of this Agreement except 
as modified by this ', Article 17.2.',   This ', Article 17.2',  shall 
supercede any Conflicting provision of the Rules. 
', 
', (i) The number of arbitrators shall be two (2), one (1) 
each appointed by the respective parties.  The two 
arbitrators shall within 30 days of the appointment of 
the second arbitrator appoint an Umpire.  If the two 
arbitrators are unable to agree upon the appointment of 
the Umpire within the aforesaid period, then either 
party may ask the Secretary General of the Permanent 
Court of Arbitration at the Hague to appoint the Umpire.  
The arbitrators and the Umpire shall have expertise in 
the area of corporate law and shall be disinterested 
persons of either Indian, English or United States 
nationality except that the Umpire shall be of British or 
Swiss nationality and shall have had no previous 
dealing or relationship, direct or indirect, with either of 
the parties.  The arbitration shall be conducted in 
Bombay, India.  Any decision or resolution of the 
dispute shall be based on Indian law (except that British 
law shall apply to procedural matters such as appeals), 
shall be a unanimous decision of the arbitrators or the 
Umpire if the arbitrators cannot agree, and shall be set 
forth in a reasoned written opinion, based on applicable 
law, stating the reasons with legal basis for the decision.  
The proceedings shall be conducted in English in 
facilities, arranged for by the arbitrators and Umpire 
held at such time, as the arbitrators and Umpire shall 
direct. 
', 
', (ii) The arbitration proceeding shall be initiated by a 
Party lending an arbitration demand to the other party.  
The demand shall be sent in accordance with ', Article 
17.2',  of this Agreement.  The demand shall be sent to 
the Party at the address and to the individual specified 
in ', Article 17.2.', 
', 
', (iii) .
', (iv)
', (v)."
', A meeting was held at Mumbai between the 
representatives of the parties on 04.10.2004.  However, the 
respondent filed a petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act in the 
Bombay High Court being Arbitration Petition No. 459 of 2004.  
The respondent, on 14.10.2004, issued notice of arbitration 
pursuant to ', Article 17.2',  of the PSA.  The notice of arbitration 
was issued by the respondent in Bellary, Karnataka and 
served upon the appellant in Bellary and Bangalore, 
Karnataka.  The appellant wrote a letter pointing out that 
unilateral action threatened by the respondent was contrary to 
the letter and spirit of the PSA read with the Settlement 
Agreement, as the respondent was under the obligation to first 
meet the product requirements of the appellant.  The 
appellant, in view of the urgent need to protect its interests, 
filed Arbitration Petition No. 9 of 2005 before the Principal 
District Judge, Bellary on 06.02.2005 seeking appropriate 
orders to restrain the respondent from breaching the PSA read 
with the Settlement Agreement. On 07.02.2005, an interim 
order was passed by the Principal District Judge, Bellary 
restraining the respondent from insisting upon an artificial 
ceiling of 40 TPD of LAR.  The respondent filed an I.A. No.4 in 
the said arbitration petition under Section 151 of the CPC read 
with ', Section 42', u" of the Arbitration Act to dismiss the 
arbitration petition filed by the appellant at Bellary.  On 
05.03.2005, the Principal District Judge, Bellary dismissed 
I.A. No. 4 in arbitration petition and held that as the entire 
cause of action had arisen in Bellary, the Bellary Court had 
jurisdiction to decide the matter.  An appeal was preferred by 
the respondent against the order passed by the Principal 
District Judge, High Court of Karnataka which allowed the 
appeal filed by the respondent and directed that the issue of 
jurisdiction would have to be decided by the Bombay High 
Court in respondent's Arbitration Petition No. 459 of 2004.  By 
the impugned order dated 02.03.2006, the Bombay High 
Court held that it had the jurisdiction to entertain Arbitration 
Petition No. 459 of 2004.  Hence the present appeal.
The High Court, in para 16 of its order, has held as 
under:-
", "16.  Under the circumstances, by virtue of clause 12 of 
the Letters Patent, this Court has jurisdiction to 
entertain this Petition as the respondent is having 
corporate office in Mumbai from where it was carrying 
on its business.  Moreover, since during the pendency of 
this petition the registered office of the respondent has 
also been shifted to Mumbai, it is needless to say that 
the respondent is carrying on business in Mumbai.  
Therefore, this Court has jurisdiction to entertain the 
petition.  I, therefore, reject the contention raised on 
behalf of the respondent that this Court has no 
jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed under ', Section 
9',  of the Arbitration  & ', Conciliation Act', , 1996." 
', 
', We heard Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel for 
the appellant and Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel 
for the respondent.  Mr. R.F. Nariman submitted that:
', a)	the High Court erred in rejecting the contention 
of the appellant that the Bombay High Court had 
no jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed by 
the respondent in the Bombay High Court under 
', Section 9',  of the Act; 
', b)	the High Court erred in holding that by virtue of 
Clause 12 of the Letters Patent Act, the Bombay 
High Court has jurisdiction to entertain the 
petition filed by the respondent in the Bombay 
High Court;
', c)	the High Court failed to appreciate that as per 
', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act, only a court having 
jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the 
subject-matter of the arbitration if the same had 
been the subject-matter of a suit, would have 
jurisdiction under the act;
', d)	the High Court failed to appreciate that being a 
special enactment for arbitration, the provisions 
of the Act would prevail over the provisions of the 
Letters Patent when determining questions under 
the Act, including questions as to jurisdiction;
', e)	the High Court ought to have appreciated that for 
a court to exercise jurisdiction under ', section 9',  of 
the Act, the court must be a "Court" as defined 
under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act and where the 
cause of action has arisen;
', f)	the High Court, after observing in paragraph 7 of 
the Impugned Order that no part of the cause of 
action had arisen at Mumbai failed to appreciate 
that it was only the Bellary Courts, which had 
the jurisdiction to entertain disputes arising from 
the PSA and the Settlement Agreement since the 
entire cause of action had arisen in Mumbai;
', g)	the High Court erred in ignoring the settled law 
that it is the situs of cause of action and not the 
place of business, which is the deciding factor in 
determining jurisdiction under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of 
the Act;
', h)	the High Court failed to appreciate that the mere 
venue of arbitration, and situs of the corporate 
office of the respondent does not vest jurisdiction 
in a court under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act. 
It is also contended that the judgment of this Court in 
', Food Corporation of India vs. Evdomen Corporation', , 
(1999) 2 SCC 446 is per incuriam. 
', It is the contention of Mr. Nariman that the High Court 
has failed to notice and appreciate that the cause of action as 
set out hereunder arose in Bellary:
', a)	the disputes raised by both the parties emanate 
from the maintenance of product levels 
stored/supplied from the plants of both the 
parties, which are situated in Bellary, Karnataka;
', b)	at the relevant time, the registered office of the 
appellant was situated in Bellary, Karnataka;
', c)	the registered office of the respondent is situated 
in Bellary, Karnataka;
', d)	the action threatened by the respondent to limit 
the supply of Liquid Argon ("LAR") up to 40 
Tonnes per day ("TPD") was proposed to be made 
in Bellary, Karnataka;
', e)	the consequences of such actions would also 
have an effect on the plant of the appellant and 
the ancillary units in the same situated in 
Bellary;
', f)	the entire chain of events leading to the 
unilateral threat issued by the respondent to 
restrict the supply of Liquid Argon occurred in 
Bellary. 
', The High Court also is not correct in holding that since 
during the pendency of the petition filed by the respondent 
before it, the Registered Office of the appellant had shifted to 
Mumbai, the appellant was carrying on business in Mumbai, 
and that this would vest jurisdiction in the Bombay High 
Court under ', Section 9',  of the Act, in relation to disputes which 
had arisen prior to the shifting of the Registered Office.  
According to learned senior counsel, the subsequent 
events do not retrospectively confer jurisdiction upon Courts 
to entertain pending cases, where there was no jurisdiction to 
entertain them at inception and that the sole intention of the 
respondent in filing a petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act before 
the Bombay High Court was to oust the jurisdiction of the 
competent Court under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act and that the 
High Court by claiming jurisdiction rendered the petition filed 
in the Bellary Court by the appellant nugatory and ineffective. 
Mr. Nariman also submitted that the test under ', Section 
2(e)',  of the Act applies uniformly across India and that the 
principle in the explanation to Section 20 CPC should be 
applied to Clause 20 of the Bombay Letters Patent.  
Concluding his argument, Mr. Nariman submitted that the 
High Court in passing the impugned order has mis-interpreted 
the provisions of the Act and Clause 12 of the Letters Patent 
and the net effect of the impugned order is that it renders 
nugatory the competency of the Courts having jurisdiction 
where admittedly the entire cause of action has arisen.  
Further it affords jurisdiction to courts on the basis of an 
enactment, namely, the Letters Patent which would not apply 
since in arbitration matters, jurisdiction must be solely 
determined by ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act. 
', Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing for 
the respondent submitted that an order holding that the Court 
has no jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off an 
arbitration petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act would 
necessarily imply or entail a refusal to grant relief under 
', Section 9',  of the Act and that such an order would, therefore, 
be an order under ', Section 9',  of the Act and would, therefore, 
be appealable.  In other words, where a Court holds that it has 
jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off a petition under 
', Section 9',  of the Act, such determination of an issue would be 
one in aid of determination of an issue under ', Section 9',  and 
would, therefore, also be a decision under ', Section 9',  of the Act. 
It is, therefore, submitted that an order on the issue of 
jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off an arbitration 
petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act is clearly an appealable 
order under ', Section 37(1)(a)',  of the Act. 
', Since the matter was argued on merits, we do not 
propose to consider the submission on the maintainability of 
the appeal in this Court and we proceed to consider the rival 
claims on merits as advanced by the respective senior counsel 
appearing on either side. 
', According to Mr. Sundaram, the Bombay High Court has 
jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off the said 
arbitration petition for the following reasons:
', a)	The High Court of Bombay is a Chartered Court 
under the Letters Patent;
', b)	Clause XII of Letters Patent prescribes the 
jurisdiction of a Chartered Court;
', Clause XII of the Letters Patent reads as under:-
"Original jurisdictions as to suits.- And We do further 
ordain that the said High Court of Judicature at 
Bombay, in the exercise of its ordinary original civil 
jurisdiction, shall be empowered to receive, try, and 
determine suits of every description, if, in the case of 
suits for land or other immovable property such land or 
property shall be situated, or in all other cases if the 
cause of action shall have arisen, either wholly, or, in 
case the leave of the Court shall have been first 
obtained, in part, within the local limits of the ordinary 
original jurisdiction of the said High Court or if the 
defendant at the time of the commencement of the suit 
shall dwell or carry on business, or personally work for 
gain, within such limits; except that the said High Court 
shall not have such original jurisdiction in cases falling 
within the jurisdiction of the Small Cause Court at 
Bombay, or the Bombay City Civil Court."
', 
', According to learned senior counsel, the Bombay High 
Court would have jurisdiction under Clause XII of the Letters 
Patent; if a defendant dwells or carries on business or works 
for gain within the limits of Mumbai.  Where the cause of 
action has accrued wholly or in part within or without the 
limits of the said jurisdiction is wholly irrelevant in the 
circumstances.  Explaining further, Mr. Sundaram submitted 
that, in the present case, at the time of filing of ', Section 9',  
petition, the appellant had its Corporate Office at Mumbai and 
was, therefore, carrying on business within the local limits of 
the Oridinary Original Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court.  
During the pendency of the said ', Section 9',  petition, the 
Registered Office of the appellant was transferred to Mumbai.  
At the time when the issue of jurisdiction was argued before 
the learned Single Judge, the Registered Office of the appellant 
had already been transferred to and was situated in Mumbai 
within the local limits of the Ordinary Original Jurisdiction of 
the Bombay High Court. 
', It is submitted that by Section 120 of the CPC, various 
sections of the Code including ', Section 20',  thereof, are made 
inapplicable to Chartered High Courts like the Bombay High 
Court.  Therefore, it is submitted that for determining the 
question of jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court as a 
Chartered Court, the provisions of Section 20 of the CPC are 
inapplicable and that only the provisions of Clause XII of the 
Letters Patent are applicable.  Mr. Sundaram submitted 
further that the jurisdiction of a Court under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of 
the 1996 Act is not in any manner restricted to the situs of the 
cause of action and that it is inconceivable that the legislature 
could have intended to restrict or circumscribe the scope and 
ambit of the jurisdiction of the Court under ', Section 2',  (i) (e) of 
the 1996 Act and make it inferior to the jurisdiction of the 
Court prescribed under the Code of CPC or Letters Patent.
We have given our careful consideration to the rival 
submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for 
the parties.  We shall now consider the arguments advanced 
by both the learned senior counsel.
', This case deals with the original civil jurisdiction of the 
Bombay High Court which is governed by its Letters Patent.  
Clause XII whereof founds its jurisdiction.  By virtue of Section 
120 CPC Sections 16, 17 and 20 CPC are expressly made 
inapplicable to the Bombay High Court.  Mr. Nariman 
submitted that the Division Bench decision of this Court in 
', Food Corporation of India vs. Evdomen Corporation', , 
(supra) has, without reference to the squarely applicable and 
binding precedent in the ', Patel Roadways Limited, Bombay 
vs. Prasad Trading Company', u", (1991) 4 SCC 270, wrongly 
held that despite the disjunctive term 'or' used in the 
explanation to Section 20 CPC, a Corporation would be 
deemed to be carrying on business at its principal office and 
also at the subordinate office situated at the place  in which 
the cause of action arose.  He submitted that the said Division 
Bench decision is per incuriam the decision of this Court in 
Patel Roadways Limited case (supra) and, therefore, cannot 
be said to have laid down the correct law in this regard.  He 
would further submit that the Division Bench of this Court in 
Food Corporation of India case (supra) also erred in failing to 
consider the crucial question of whether the provisions of 
Letters Patent should be interpreted in the light of the 
principles enshrined in the pari materia provisions of the CPC.  
He would further submit that a three-Judge Bench of this 
Court in the case of Patel Roadways Limited case (supra) 
held that the explanation to ", Section 20',  is purely clarificatory 
and does not extend the principle enunciated in ', Section 20', u".  
Further, it has held that in view of the term 'or' used in the 
explanation to Section 20 CPC a Corporation would be deemed 
to be carrying on business only at the place at which the 
cause of action arose, provided that it had a subordinate office 
at that place, failing which, it would be deemed to be carrying 
on business only at the place at which it maintained its 
principal office.  It is, therefore, submitted that the same 
principle in ", Section 20',  including the clarification made by the 
explanation, should be read in Clause 12 of the Letters Patent. 
In our opinion, no good reason has been made out in 
reconsideration of the judgment in Food Corporation of India 
case (supra).  The reasons are as under:
', In our view, a judgment of this Court will not be 
reconsidered unless a subsequent Bench believes it has laid 
down wrong principles of law by ignoring a provision of law or 
otherwise not following a direct binding precedent.  In the 
instant case, this Court in Food Corporation of India case 
(supra) followed the provision of law i.e. Clause 12 of Letters 
Patent and Section 120 CPC which itself made the provisions  
Section 16, 17 and 20 CPC inapplicable.  The judgment of this 
Court will not be referred for reconsideration by a subsequent 
coordinate Bench merely because the subsequent Bench may 
have arrived at a different conclusion had there not been an 
earlier judgment.  That law is the principle of stare decisis 
adopted and followed in the Indian Courts.  None of the 
conditions necessary for reconsidering an earlier direct 
precedent has arisen in the instant case.  Hence, the 
submission made by Mr. Nariman in this context has no force. 
', 
', JURISDICTION OF THE COURT:
', 	Mr. Nariman submitted that the test under ', Section 2(e)',  of 
the Act applies uniformly across India.  The Arbitration and 
', Conciliation Act', , 1996 is the ', Central Act',  and lays down a 
single, uniform law in respect of arbitration and conciliation 
for the whole of India and, therefore, submitted that it must be 
read to lay down principles that apply uniformly across the 
country. 
', 	It is submitted that ', Section 2(e)', u" of the 1996 Act defines 
the term 'court' and in doing so, it lays down the test to 
determine which the court has the jurisdiction to supplement 
and complement arbitration proceedings.  It is submitted that 
", Section 2(e)', u" must be read to lay down one uniform test to 
determine the 'court' of competent jurisdiction for application 
across the country, regardless of whether the principal Civil 
Court of ordinary jurisdiction referred to in the said test is a 
High Court or a District Court.  
", 	In our view, an arbitration petition is required to be filed 
in a Court having jurisdiction.  The definition of the "Court" 
under the 1996 Act is as follows:-
', "Sec.2(e): "Court" means the principal Civil Court of 
original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High 
Court in exercise of its original civil jurisdiction, having 
jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the 
subject-matter of the arbitration if the same had been 
the subject-matter of a suit, but does not include any 
Civil Court of a grade inferior to such principal Civil 
Court, or any Court Of Small Causes;"             
',                                                        (emphasis supplied)

"Court" has been defined in the ', Arbitration Act', , 1940 as 
follows:-
', "Sec. 2(c): "Court" means a Civil Court having jurisdiction 
to decide the questions forming the subject-matter of the 
reference if the same had been the subject-matter of a 
suit, but does not except for the purpose of arbitration 
proceedings under ', section 21',  includes a Small Cause 
Court;"
', 
', The definition of "Court" in the two sections are, 
therefore, pari materia except that under the 1996 Act, the 
definition restricts Subordinate Courts competent to hear such 
matters to the Principal Civil Court and expressly includes 
High Courts in exercise of their original civil jurisdiction. 
On a plain reading of the definition of "Court" under 
', section 2(e)',  of the 1996 Act, it is evident that the Arbitration 
Petition can be filed before:-
', (i)	a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in  
district. 
', (ii)	a High Court in exercise of its original civil 
jurisdictionhaving jurisdiction to decide the 
questions forming the subject matter of the 
arbitration if the same had been the subject 
matter of a suit.
', For the purpose of the present Petition under ', Section 9',  of 
the 1996 Act, we are concerned with the jurisdiction of the 
Bombay High Court which is a Chartered High Court under 
the Letters Patent exercising Original Civil Jurisdiction. It is 
relevant that there are only three Chartered High Courts in 
India which exercise jurisdiction under their respective Letters 
Patent which continue to apply in full force and effect which 
Letters Patent are inter alia protected by ', Article 225',  of the 
Constitution.
', Mr. Nariman submitted that the principle in the 
explanation to Section 20 CPC should be applied to Clause 12 
of the Bombay Letters Patent.  It is submitted that although 
admittedly, Section 20 of the CPC does not, in terms, apply to 
the High Court in exercise of its original civil jurisdiction, it is 
settled law that the principles of the CPC should nevertheless 
be applied, as far as possible, to proceedings of a civil nature, 
even where the application of the CPC has been barred.  This 
Court has, in the case of ', Sarguja Transport Service vs. 
State Transport Appellate Tribunal, M.P. Gwalior & Ors', ., 
(1987) 1 SCC 5, held that principles from the CPC can and 
should be applied even to writ proceedings, despite the fact 
that the explanation to Section 141 of the CPC, expressly 
states that the stipulation in ', Section 141',  that the procedure 
provided in the CPC shall be followed, as far as it can be made 
applicable, in all proceedings in any Court of civil jurisdiction, 
does not apply to proceedings under ', Article 226',  of the 
Constitution. 
', It is submitted that Clause 12 of the Bombay Letters 
Patent is in pari materia with Section 20 of the CPC.  Both 
provisions deal with the jurisdiction of a court of ordinary 
original civil jurisdiction, and they set out similar tests for the 
determination of where a suit may be filed. 
Clause 12 of the Letters Patent states that a suit may be 
filed in either the Madras, Calcutta or Bombay High Court in 
the following circumstances:
', " if the cause of action shall have arisen, either wholly, 
or, in case the leave of the Court shall have been first 
obtained, in part, within the local limits of the ordinary 
original jurisdiction of the said High Court, or if the 
defendant at the time of the commencement of the suit 
shall dwell or carry on business or personally work for 
gain, within such limits". 
', It may thus be noted that Section 20 of the CPC and 
Clause 12 of the Letters Patent lay down the same test for 
determining the court of appropriate jurisdiction in which to 
proceed against a non-corporate defendant.  It is submitted 
that in the absence of any reason to believe that there was any 
intention to apply different tests in the CPC and the Letters 
Patent to determine the appropriate forum to sue a corporate 
defendant, it cannot be said that the two statutes provide 
different tests, and that the principles in one cannot be used 
to interpret the principle in the other. 
', The above argument was countered by Mr. C.A. 
Sundaram under Section 120 of CPC, 1908.  The provisions of 
Sections 16, 17 and 20 of the Code of CPC are inapplicable to 
Chartered High Courts exercising Original Civil Jurisdiction 
under the Letters Patent.  ', Section 120',  reads as follows: 
"', Section 120', "- Provisions not applicable to High Court 
in original civil jurisdiction- (1) The following provisions 
shall not apply to the high Court in the exercise of its 
original civil jurisdiction, namely, ', section 16', , ', 17',  and 
', 20."
', 
', u"Thus for the purpose of determining the Original Civil 
Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court, Section 20 of the CPC 
1908 has been specifically excluded and has no application. 
Only the provisions of clause 12 of the Letters Patent are 
required to be considered to determine the jurisdiction of the 
Hon'ble Bombay High Court.
", Under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, the Bombay High 
Court would have jurisdiction to entertain and try an 
Arbitration Petition even if no cause of action has arisen 
within its jurisdiction, provided the Respondent has an office 
at Mumbai.
', This Court in Food Corporation case while considering 
the definition of "Court" under ', section 2(c)',  of the 1940 Act has 
held that: 
', (i)	jurisdiction of a Chartered High court is to be 
determined by clause 12 of the Letters Patent. 
', (ii)	by virtue of the section 120 of the CPC, 1908, the 
provisions of section 20 of the CPC do not apply to 
Chartered High Courts (such as Bombay) exercising 
original civil jurisdiction. 
', u"(iii)	that under clause 12  of the Letters Patent, the 
Bombay High Court would have jurisdiction over 
the subject matter of arbitration if the Respondent 
has an office in Mumbai, regardless of the fact that 
no cause of action may have arisen at Mumbai.
By such judgment this Hon'ble Court merely expressed 
the law as it stands and as is ex facie clear from the applicable 
Statutes/provisions of law.
", The appellant, in the present case, concedes that by 
virtue of the judgment of Food Corporation of India case 
(supra), the Bombay High Court would have jurisdiction to 
entertain and try the ', Section 9',  petition.  However, the 
appellant contends the judgment in the Food Corporation of 
India case is per incuriam requiring reconsideration and 
should be referred to a larger Bench of this Court since it 
failed to consider the judgment of this Court in the case of 
Patel Roadways Limited (supra).
', This Court in Patel Roadways Limited case held:
', (i)	an action can be filed in a Court where a 
subordinate office of the Defendant is situated if a 
part of the cause of action has arisen thereat. 
', (ii)	no action would lie in a court within whose 
jurisdiction the principal office of the Defendant is 
situated if no cause of action has arisen thereat.
Section 20 CPC reads as under:
', "20. Other suits to be instituted where defendants 
reside or cause of action arises- Subject to the 
limitations aforesaid, every suit shall be instituted 
in a court within the local limits of whose 
jurisdiction- 
', 
', (a) the defendant, or each of the defendants where 
there are more than one, at the time of the 
commencement of the suit, actually and voluntarily 
resides, or carries on business, or personally works 
for gain; or 

', (b) any of the defendants, where there are more 
than one, at the time of the commencement of the 
suit, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on 
business or personally works for gain, provided 
that in such case either the leave of the Court is 
given, or the defendants who do not reside, or 
carry on business, or personally work for gain, as 
aforesaid, acquiesce in such institution; or 

', (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises

Explanation- A corporation shall be deemed to 
carry on business at its sole or principal office in 
India or, in respect of any place where it has also a 
subordinate office, at such place."
', 
', It is ex facie clear from the section that a suit can be filed 
where a part of the cause of action arises or where the 
principal office is located meaning thereby that what their 
Lordships in the Patel Roadways case held that was that a suit 
can be filed where a subordinate office is situate if a part of 
the cause of action arises or otherwise only where the 
principal office is situate.
', In Food Corporation case, this court pointed out that as 
per ', section 20',  (and a mere perusal of such section would show 
this is so) a suit can be filed where the cause of action arises 
or where the principal office is situate. In any event, it is 
submitted that such observation was merely obiter in seeing 
out what section 20 CPC stated and formed no part of the 
judgment and ratio decidendi, since this court then proceeded 
to hold that ', section 20',  had no application to the Bombay High 
Court by virtue of section 120 CPC (which was never a matter 
in issue in the Patel Roadways case) but was the only matter 
in issue in the Food Corporation case and proceeded to 
consider the jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court under 
clause 12 of its Letters Patent. While doing so, an 
interpretation of section 20 CPC became totally unnecessary 
for arriving at its decision in the Food Corporation case and in 
fact was not applied at all. There is therefore, no question of 
this court in the Food Corporation of India case failing to 
consider whether the provisions of the Letter Patent should be 
interpreted in light of the principles of the CPC.
The only ground on which the appellant seeks 
reconsideration of the Food Corporation case is that as per the 
appellant the interpretation of Section 20 of CPC in the Food 
Corporation case (supra) is erroneous and contrary to the 
judgment of the Supreme Court in the Patel Roadways case 
(supra) in that it erroneously interprets the explanation to 
section 20of the CPC, 1908. As stated above, even assuming 
without admitting that the appellant is correct, the said 
statement of the Food Corporation case was purely obiter qua 
the issue to be decided and the reason behind it therein and 
can never be the basis for a subsequent Bench to refer the 
same for reconsideration.
', Furthermore, the appellant loses sight of the fact that the 
judgment in the Patel Roadways case is clearly distinguishable 
on facts since in that case this Court was dealing with the 
jurisdiction of the 3rd Assistant City Civil Judge, Chennai who 
was governed by the CPC and the ', section 20',  therefore and not 
by the Letters Patent. It is for this reason that in the Patel 
Roadways case the Court was only concerned with section 20 
CPC and was in no way concerned with the Letters Patent 
jurisdiction. In fact, nowhere in the Patel Roadways judgment 
is there a whisper on the scope of either the Letters Patent 
jurisdiction of the High Court or section 120 CPC which will 
clearly distinguish the Patel Roadways case both on facts and 
law from the instant case or the Food Corporation case 
decided by this Court.
', The appellant has also urged that:
', (i) even if section 20 of the CPC, 1908 is not applicable to 
the Bombay High Court, the principles of the section and 
in particular explanation to ', section 20',  would be attracted 
when corporations are being sued and relies on the 
judgment of this Court in Sarguja Transport case 
(supra) where the Supreme Court held that even though 
section 141 of the CPC, 1908 did not apply to writ 
petitions, the principles would be applicable.
', (ii) that a "Uniformity Rule" on jurisdiction should be 
applied to all courts in the country since the 1996 Act is 
a central Statute.
', In our opinion, the argument of Mr. Nariman that the 
principles of Section 20 of the Code can be applied to Letters 
Patent has no substance and merit.  
', The principles of ', Section 20',  cannot be made applicable to 
clause 12 of the Letters Patent since the CPC itself by ', section 
120',  specifically excludes the applicability of Section 20 of the 
CPC to Chartered High Courts. It is submitted that when the 
CPC itself provides that ', Section 20',  is specifically excluded, the 
principles of ', Section 20',  cannot be made applicable or be 
attracted when a corporation is being sued under the Letters 
Patent. The judgment of this Court in Sarguja Transport case 
(1987) 1 SCC 5 cannot apply for the following reasons:-
', (i)	the principles of CPC were made applicable to Writ 
Petitions on the premise that these would not be 
contrary to the provisions of ', Article 226.', 
', u"(ii)	If the appellant's argument is accepted it would 
render section 120 of the CPC nugatory and otiose 
since ", section 120',  expressly refers to three sections 
(i.e. ', sections 16', , ', 17',  and ', 20', ) and makes them 
inapplicable.
', (iii)	The Letters Patent, is a special charter conferring 
jurisdiction on Chartered High Courts. When there 
is a special enactment such as the Letters Patent, 
which expressly lays down the criteria on the 
jurisdiction of the Chartered High Court, it is totally 
unnecessary and in fact futile to refer to another 
legislation such as the CPC (which is not applicable) 
to determine the jurisdiction of the Chartered High 
Court.
', (iv)	The facts in the Sarguja Transport Case (supra) 
were entirely different since there was no 
corresponding legislation which laid down the 
territorial of the Court exercising Writ Jurisdiction.
Thus the judgment of this Court in Sarguja transport 
case cannot be applied in the facts of the present case.
Our attention was drawn to the decision of a Constitution 
Bench of this Court in the case of P.S. Sathappan (dead) by 
LRs. Vs. Andhra Bank Ltd. and Others, (2004) 11 SCC 672 
in para 32 this Court has held has follows:-
". To submit that a Letters Patent is a subordinate piece of 
legislation is to not understand the true nature of a Letters 
Patent. As has been held in Vinita Khanolkar case and 
Sharda Devi case a Letters Patent is the Charter of the High 
Court. As held in Shah Babulal Khimji case a Letters Patent 
is the specific law under which a High Court derives its 
powers. It is not any subordinate piece of legislation. As set 
out in the aforementioned two cases a Letters Patent cannot 
be excluded by implication. Further it is settled law that 
between a special law and a general law the special all will 
always prevail.  A Letters Patent is a special law for the 
High Court concerned.  The Civil Procedure code is a general 
law applicable to all courts.  It is well settled law, that in the 
event of a conflict between a special law and a general law, 
the special law must always prevail."
', 
', Thus neither of the CPC nor its principles can be made 
applicable to the Letters Patent qua sections 16,17 and 20 of 
CPC. It is therefore not only impermissible but also 
unnecessary to apply the CPC or import the principles of 
section 20 of the CPC into the Letters Patent more so when the 
court has already held in the FCI case that the jurisdiction of 
the Civil Court under section 20 of CPC is different from the 
jurisdiction of the High Court under clause 12 of Letters 
Patent.
', u"The appellant has urged that P.S. Satthappan's case will 
apply only in case there is a conflict between the Letters 
Patent and the CPC and that there is no conflict. Such a 
submission, in our view, is clearly fallacious for the following 
reasons:
", (i)	the Letters Patent  and CPC operate in separate 
fields i.e. The Letters Patent specifically conferring 
jurisdiction on Chartered High Courts and the CPC 
conferring jurisdiction on all other courts.
', (ii)	There is clearly a difference between the scope of 
the Letters Patent and the CPC. The difference being 
evident upon a plain reading of section 120 of the 
CPC.
', u"Mr. Nariman, in reply to the above submission of Mr. 
Sundaram, contended that the above decision supports the 
appellant's stand, since there is no conflict whatsoever 
between relevant provisions of the Letters Patent and the CPC 
in the instant case.  It is submitted that clause 12 of Letters 
Patent and Section 20 of CPC are in pari materia and sets out 
similar test for the determination of where a suit may be filed 
and that the appellant is merely seeking to apply the 
additional clarificatory principle relating to corporate 
defendants stated in Section 20 of CPC to Clause 12 of the 
Letters Patent.  It is, therefore, submitted that the decision of 
this Court in P.S. Sathappan case (supra) does not detract 
from the appellant's contention but in fact supports its 
contention. 
", UNIFORMITY RULE:         
', There is no question of uniformity rules applying since 
', section 2(e)',  of the 1996 Act expressly recognizes that not only 
district courts but also High Courts exercising original civil 
jurisdiction would have jurisdiction under the 1996 Act. ', The 
Act',  thus recognizes that Chartered High Courts exercising 
Original Civil Jurisdiction would exercise jurisdiction. It is 
submitted that apart from the 3 Chartered High Courts who 
are governed by the Letters Patent only two other High Courts 
in the country (Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir under their 
respective ', High Courts Act', s) exercise original civil jurisdiction. 
This issue is therefore not question of all India application as 
it does not affect jurisdiction of most High Courts. There is 
therefore no question of a "uniformity rule" being required to 
be applied. There cannot be a rule of uniformity applied 
between unlikes. The appellant seeks to apply such uniformity 
rule between the subordinate Courts (governed by the CPC) 
and the High Courts (governed by the Letters Patent). 
The appellant further cited:
', (i)	', Globe Cogeneration Power Ltd vs. Sri. Hiranyakeshi',  
(AIR 2005 Karn 94 (Karnataka High Court)
', (ii)	', Kamal Pushp Enterprises vs. Chairman Cum 
Managing Director, Gas Authority of India Ltd., 
(Vol', .31 DRJ 651) (Delhi High Court).
', for the proposition that the jurisdiction of the Court is 
not to be determined on the basis of the residence of the 
respondent but only on the basis of where the subject 
matter of arbitration is situated.
', In our view, neither of the two judgments above are 
applicable and in any event can be distinguished for the 
following reasons:-
', (a)	(i)	The judgment of the Karnataka High Court in the 
Globe Congeneration case(supra) was one where the 
litigant had initiated the proceedings in the City Civil 
Court (exercising jurisdiction under section 16(d) of the 
CPC, 1908) which is admittedly not a Chartered High 
Court Exercising jurisdiction under the Letters Patent. 
The city Civil Court was following 16(d) of CPC.
', (ii)	Further the Karnataka High Court was dealing with 
a case under section 16(d) of the CPC dealing with 
disputes relating to immovable property. It is well settled 
that an action can be instituted only in a Court where the 
immovable property is situated. Thus clause 12 of the 
Letters Patent never arose for consideration.
', u"(b)	(i) The judgment of the Delhi High Court in the Kamal 
Pushp Enterprise case (supra) was one where the Delhi 
High Court was interpreting section 20 of the CPC and 
not clause 12 of the Letters Patent. That this was clearly 
the case is made evident from the fact that the learned 
judge (Hon'ble Justice Lahoti as he then was) who 
rendered this judgment was a party to the Bench of this 
Court in the FCI case which was concerned with clause 
12 of the Letters Patent and applies with full force in this 
case.
", (c)	the interpretation of the key words "the questions 
forming" the subject matter have been completely 
overlooked and/or not given effect to by the Karnataka 
High Court and the Delhi High Court. The respondent 
submits that the subject matter of arbitration may be 
situated anywhere but a Chartered High Court would 
nonetheless have jurisdiction to decide "the questions" 
forming subject matter of arbitration if the requirements 
of clause 12 of the Letters Patent are satisfied.
', (d)	This Court in the FCI case which arose while interpreting 
', section 2(c)',  of the Arbitration Act (which is in pari 
materia with ', section 2(e)',  of the 1996 Act) qua clause 12 
of the Letters Patent has held that Bombay High Court 
would have jurisdiction under clause 12 of the Letters 
Patent if the respondent has an office in Mumbai even if 
no part of the cause of action has arisen thereat.
The appellant also relied upon the judgment of the High 
Court in ', Dayanand Prasad Sinha vs. Hindustan Steel',  
works Construction Ltd. (AIR 2001 CAL 71) to contend that 
where there is a conflict between the place of residence and of 
carrying business and the place where the cause of action has 
arisen, the Court must apply the test of forum conveniens and 
accept the place in respect of the cause of action as having 
overriding value over the place of residence and business.
It is submitted that under domestic law i.e. CPC or 
Letters Patent as the case may be, a plaintiff has the option of 
instituting proceedings in any of the courts which would have 
jurisdiction, the test of forum non convenience cannot be 
applied under Domestic Law and if applied would wrongfully 
restrict or negate the amplitude of the provisions of CPC and 
of the Letters Patent. The view of the Calcutta High Court is 
clearly erroneous in the light of the observation of this Court 
in the case of "', Khaleel Ahnmed vs. Hatti Gold Mines Co. 
Ltd', . (2000) 3 SCC 755 where this court has observed that " It 
cannot always be said in view of section 20 of the Code, that 
only one Court will have jurisdiction to try the suit". The said 
judgment of the Calcutta High Court is therefore erroneous 
and cannot and ought not to be relied upon. In any event the 
rule of Forum Conveniens is expressly excluded by ', section 42',  
of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which mandates that all future 
actions be filed only in the court where the first application 
with regard to a arbitration was filed.
', CAUSE OF ACTION: 
', Mr. Nariman, learned senior counsel submitted that the 
Bombay High Court has correctly come to the conclusion that 
no cause of action in relation to the present dispute has arisen 
in Bombay and that this finding has been recorded at 3 
separate places in the impugned judgment and has not been 
challenged by the respondent.  It is submitted that the 
Registered Offices of both the appellant and the respondent 
were situated in Bellary District at all relevant times.  Further, 
the plants of both the appellant and the respondent are 
situated in Bellary, the concerned products are supplied and 
payment in respect of them is made at Bellary, the alleged 
actions of the respondent took place at Bellary and the 
consequences allegedly emanating from these actions would 
be borne in Bellary.  Finally, the correspondence in relation to 
the threatened action also took place at Bellary.  
Mr. Nariman further submitted that as per the decision 
of this Court in Patel Roadways Limited, under ', Section 20', u", the 
place of business of a Corporation, for the purposes of the 
institution of a suit against it, would be the place at which the 
cause of action arose, if a subordinate office of the Corporation 
was located at that place, or failing which, the place of the 
principal office of the Corporation.  Therefore, he submitted 
that in the Patel Roadways judgment, it was held that the 
words 'place of business' used in Section 20(a) of the CPC 
would, in relation to a Corporation, refer exclusively to the 
place at which the cause of action arose, if a subordinate office 
of the Corporation was also situated there.  In such 
circumstance, no suit can be initiated in the court with 
jurisdiction over the principal office of the corporation under 
", Section 20(a)', .  It is only in cases where there is no subordinate 
office at the place at which the cause of action arose, that a 
suit may be instituted under ', Section 20(a)',  in the court with 
jurisdiction over the principal office of the corporation.  
Conversely, no suit may be instituted under ', Section 20(a)',  in 
the court with jurisdiction over the subordinate office unless 
the cause of action has also arisen within the same 
jurisdiction. 
', It is further urged that the contrary dicta of the Division 
Bench of this Court in the case of Food Corporation of India 
(supra) is per incurium the dicta in the Patel Roadways (supra) 
and further, it is erroneous in that it fails to consider the 
crucial question of whether the provisions of the Letters Patent 
should be interpreted in light of the principles enshrined in 
the pari materia provisions of the CPC.  Therefore, it is 
submitted that the Food Corporation of India case (supra) 
ought not to be relied upon as a precedent. 
', It is submitted that the principles governing Section 20 of 
the CPC as well as Clause 12 of the Letters Patent clearly 
direct that a suit may not be instituted at the situs of the 
subordinate office unless the cause of action also arose at 
such place. 
', u"It is, therefore, submitted that the Bombay High Court 
would not have had the jurisdiction to entertain the 
respondent's petition under ", Section 9',  of the Act, 1996 had 
Section 20 of the CPC applied to it.  Since Clause 12 of the 
Letters Patent incorporates and is based upon principles 
identical to those enshrined in Section 20 of the CPC, it is 
submitted that the Bombay High Court erred in holding that it 
had jurisdiction to entertain the said petition under Clause 12 
of the Letters Patent.  It is submitted that, since admittedly the 
entire cause of action in relation to the disputes between the 
parties had arisen in Bellary District, Karnataka, and since 
admittedly at the time of the institution of the Section 9 
Petition filed by both parties, the registered and principal 
offices of the parties were at Bellary, the only court with 
jurisdiction to entertain the said petitions was the appropriate 
court with jurisdiction at Bellary. 
', We considered the above argument of Mr. Nariman.  Our 
answer to the above argument is as under:-
', Though the Bombay High Court has in the impugned 
order dated 2.3.2006 observed that no part of the cause of 
action has arisen at Mumbai, it is submitted that the cause of 
action against the respondents has in fact arisen within the 
Ordinary Original Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court for 
the following reasons: It may be noted that the following sub 
paragraphs below have been noted by the Bombay High Court 
in impugned order dated 2.3.2006. 
', (a)	The parties themselves have chosen Mumbai to be the 
situs for the Arbitration proceedings (clause 17.2 (i) of the 
Agreement)
', (b)	The arbitration clause specifically provides for a dispute 
resolution meeting to be held to resolve the dispute 
between the parties as a pre-condition for invocation of 
the arbitration clause which meeting was held at Bombay 
at the request of the appellant.
', (c)	The Pipeline Supply Agreement (under which the 
disputes have arisen) was approved by the Board of 
Directors of the appellant Company in Bombay.
', (d)	The pipeline Supply Agreement as amended was reviewed 
and discussed by the Board of Directors of the appellant 
Company in Bombay.
', u"(e)	The Settlement Agreement dated 23.6.2003 was adopted 
at the meeting of the respondent Board of Directors 
where the appellant's nominees on the respondents 
Board were also present.
", (f)	That the entire Senior Management of the appellant is 
located at Mumbai. It may be noted that in ', Mayur (H.K) 
Ltd. & Ors vs. Owners & Parties', u", Vessel M. V. Fortune 
Express & Ors. (2006) 3 SCC 100 this Court (in para 27) 
observed that the principal place of business would be 
where the governing power of the Corporation is 
exercised or the place of a Corporation's Chief Executive 
Offices which is typically viewed as the verve centre or 
the place designated as the principal place of business of 
the Corporation in its incorporation under various 
statutes.
", (g)	when the ', section 9',  petition was filed the appellant had 
its office at Mumbai and was carrying on business at 
Mumbai and its Directors were stationed in Mumbai.
', (h)	The appellant had in fact shifted its registered office to 
Mumbai during the pendency of the ', section 9',  petition in 
the Bombay High Court as it was more convenient to 
operate its registered office from Mumbai. It is submitted 
that where a Court has jurisdiction to try the suit when it 
comes up for disposal, it then cannot refuse to assume 
jurisdiction by reason of the fact that it had no 
jurisdiction to entertain it at the date of institution as 
held in ', Sudhir G. Angur & Ors. vs. M. Sanjeev & Ors', . 
(2006) 1 SCC 141 para 11)
', (i)	That at the time the question of jurisdiction was heard 
and gone into and decided by the Bombay High Court, 
the Registered Office of the appellant had been shifted to 
and was in fact situated in Mumbai. The Bombay High 
Court in the case of Fazlehussein vs. Yusufully AIR 
1955 Bom 55, para 2 has held that:
', "Even if the Court had jurisdiction to entertain the suit 
as filed, if by reason of subsequent events the Court has 
lost jurisdiction to entertain or try the suit, the Court 
will not be justified in dealing with the suit with 
reference to circumstances as they existed at the date of 
the institution of the suit but must proceed to decide 
the dispute on the footing that if the suit had been filed 
at the later date, the Court would have been 
incompetent to grant the reliefs in respect of the 
properties and of the persons who are not within the 
limits of the jurisdiction of the Court.  Normally, a Court 
must have regard to circumstances existing as at the 
date when the issue of jurisdiction is tried and must 
decide it in the light of circumstances existing as at that 
date." 					    (emphasis supplied)

It may be noted that when the section 9 Petition was 
tried in Bombay on the issue of jurisdiction, the Respondent 
had transferred its registered office to Mumbai.
It is submitted that the ratio for this would be that 
territorial jurisdiction does not go to the competence of the 
Court as in the case of a court having jurisdiction on the 
subject matter of the dispute.
', That is why if a court has no territorial jurisdiction (but 
is otherwise competent to hear a matter) should the matter be 
heard and decided by such Court without demur, the 
judgment will be valid and not void or non est. It is for this 
reason that insofar as territorial jurisdiction is concerned, the 
relevant time to determine the existence of the jurisdiction 
would be when the matter is heard.
', SUBSEQUENT SHIFT OF REGISTERED OFFICE CANNOT 
GIVE RISE TO JURISDICTION:
', 
', Mr. Nariman contended that the subsequent shift of 
Registered Office cannot give rise to jurisdiction 
He submitted that the Letters Patent specifically and 
expressly refers to the time of commencement of the suit as 
the relevant time to determine jurisdiction of the Court.  It 
states that:
', 	" if the cause of action shall have arisen, either 
wholly, or, in case the leave of the Court shall have been 
first obtained, in part, within the local limits of the 
ordinary original jurisdiction of the said High Court, or 
if the defendant at the time of the commencement of the 
suit shall dwell or carry on business or personally work 
for gain, within such limits".
', 
', 	He further submitted that the very same principle is also 
reflected in Section 20 of the CPC, which also states that the 
court of the appropriate jurisdiction to decide a suit would be 
the court within whose jurisdiction the defendant or each of 
the defendants resided or carried out business "at the time of 
the commencement of the suit".
', 	He further submitted that this Court has in a plethora of 
cases, including Rameshwar and Ors. Vs. Jot Ram and 
Anr., (1976) 1 SCC 194 and ', Shri Kishan vs. Manoj Kumar', u", 
(1998) 2 SCC 710 held that the rights of parties are 
crystallized on the date of the institution of the suit, and 
subsequent events cannot alter these rights.  It is submitted 
that on the date of the institution of proceedings before the 
Bombay High Court, it did not have jurisdiction, and therefore 
the subsequent shifting of the appellant's registered office 
cannot operate to vest the Bombay High Court with the 
requisite jurisdiction.  It is therefore submitted that the 
Bombay High Court erred in assuming jurisdiction based on 
the subsequent change in the appellant's registered office.    
FORUM CONVENIENS:
", u"Mr. Nariman's contention that the situs of arbitration is 
determined by the parties keeping in mind various 
considerations including convenience of the prospective 
arbitrators.  These same considerations do not apply in 
deciding which Court would be convenient to supplement or 
compelement the arbitral proceedings.  It is submitted that the 
latter question is to be determined based on the convenience 
of only the parties i.e. the appellant and the respondent by 
reference to the cause of action the assets under dispute and 
the Registered/Principal offices of the parties.  Concluding his 
submission, he submitted that in view of the fact that the 
cause of action as well as the plant and machinery being the 
subject-matter of the dispute, is situated in Bellary, that is 
also where the Registered Offices of both the parties at the 
commencement of arbitral proceedings, the Court with 
jurisdiction to entertain a petition under ", Section 9', u" of the Act  
would undoubtedly be the Court at Bellary.
Mr. Sundaram submitted that the appellant's contention 
that Bombay High Court was not a convenient forum is totally 
fallacious for the following reasons apart from being taken for 
the first time in the oral submissions before this Court.
", (a) The arbitration hearings are being conducted at Bombay 
as per the Agreement. (Clause 17.2)
', (b) 8 full days of hearings had already been held before this 
appeal was heard. Further hearings of 4 days have also 
taken place on the 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th of August, 2006 
and further 5 days hearing for final and submissions are 
scheduled for 16th to 20th October, 2006.
', (c) The record comprises of several thousand pages of 
documents complied in over 12 voluminous box files all 
available in Mumbai.
', (d) The appellants Directors and Senior Officers are in 
Mumbai and have been attending the hearings to instruct 
their lawyers in Mumbai.
', (e)	Evidence has been recorded and closed by both parties in 
the arbitration.
', (f)	The parties had agreed on Mumbai as a convenient 
location for the conduct of the arbitration.
It is contended that the appellant is indulging in forum 
shopping to vest jurisdiction at Bellary, Karnataka with an 
ultimate objective of challenging the Award before the Civil 
Court at Bellary rather than the Bombay High Court.               
The appellant has relied upon two judgments, namely, 
', (i)	Rameshwar & Ors. Vs. Jot Ram & Anr. (1976) 1 SCC 
', 194', 
', (i)	Shri Kishan vs. Manojkumar (1998) 2 SCC 710 to 
urge that the Courts ought to consider the rights of 
parties which crystallized on the date of the institution 
of the suit and subsequent events cannot alter these 
rights.
', It is submitted that both the above two cases cited do not 
apply to the facts of the case and are clearly distinguishable.
', In the Rameshwar & Ors vs. Jot Ram & Anr',  (supra), 
this Court was called upon to consider whether subsequent 
event of the land owners death at the appellate stage unsettled 
the right acquired by the tenants or whether the Tribunal 
must uphold the rights which have crystallized on the date the 
applications were made. This was a mater under the Punjab 
Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953. The said judgment did not 
consider the subsequent events vis-`-vis territorial jurisdiction 
of the court. In fact, the said judgment can be only relied upon 
for the proposition that higher Courts pronounce rights of 
parties as the facts stood when the first Court was 
approached.
', In Shri Kishan vs. Manojkumar (supra) this Court was 
called upon to consider whether legal rights accrued to the 
plaintiff and stood crystallized under the law applicable to 
buildings at that time. This was a case under the Haryana 
Urban Control of Rent and ', Eviction Act', .
', This Court had the occasion to consider whether the suit 
filed before the expiry of ten years was in any matter, affected 
due to the fact that during the pendency of the suit the 10 
years exemption period ended. This court held that the legal 
rights had accrued and stood crystallized under the law 
applicable to buildings at the time of institution of the suit.
Once again, the said judgment did not consider 
jurisdiction of the territorial Court.
', The said two judgments are therefore, clearly 
distinguishable. It is submitted that the judgment of Bombay 
High Court in case of ', Fazlehussein vs. Yusufally',  (supra) 
clearly applies to the facts of the present case.
For the foregoing reasons, we are of the considered 
opinion that the Bombay High Court has jurisdiction to 
entertain ', Section 9',  application of the respondents herein.  We, 
therefore, request the Bombay High Court to proceed on 
merits to determine the matter in accordance with law.  For 
the reasons set out above, the civil appeal ought to be rejected 
by this Court and we do so accordingly.  No costs. 
In view of this order, the appellant is directed to file their 
affidavit in reply on merits in the pending ', Section 9',  
proceedings. 
', 27991
',  
    ', 






    ', 
    ', 
    ', 
       
    






'][
    
        ', 
    

    
', 
  ', Main Search', 
  ', Premium Members', 
  ', Advanced Search', 
  ',  Disclaimer', 
', 




  ', 
    

      ',  Cites 30 docs 
      
        - [', View All', ]
      
      ', 

      
          ', Section 9 in The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
          ', Section 20 in The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
          ', The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
          ', Article 17 in The Constitution Of India   1949', 
      
          ', Section 2 in The Arbitration Act,   1940', 
      
    

    

      ',  Citedby 32 docs
      
        - [', View All', ]
      
      ', 

      
          ', Tuples Educational Society ... vs State Of U.P. Through The ... on 31 March, 2008', 
      
          ', O.A.Nos.40 And 41 Of 2010: This Is ... vs Unknown on 3 December, 2010', 
      
          ', Corporate Office At 8Th Floor vs M/S. Saumya Mining Ltd on 8 July, 2014', 
      
          ', Corporate Office At 8Th Floor vs M/S. Saumya Mining Ltd on 8 July, 2014', 
      
          ', Corporate Office At 8Th Floor vs M/S. Saumya Mining Ltd on 8 July, 2014', 
      
    
    ', 
  ', 



', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
', 
', 


', 
        


', 

',  
  
', 

    ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      	   
    ', 
  

', 
  
    ', 
      ', User Queries', 
      
          ', cpc section', 
      
          ', civil procedure code under s 20 ', 
      
          ', section 20 of civil procedure code', 
      
          ', sec 20(a) of cpc', 
      
          ', section 20 cpc', 
      
          ', sec.20 cpc', 
      
          ', jurisdiction of HC', 
      
          ', jurisdiction of high court', 
      
          ', food corporation', 
      
          ', original jurisdiction', 
      
          ', nariman', 
      
          ', registered office', 
      
          ', patel roadways', 
      
          ', roadways', 
      
          ', arbitration petition ', 
      
          ', section 120', 
      
          ', jurisdiction of bombay high court', 
      
          ', petition under section 9 ', 
      
          ', section 2(e)', 
      
          ', clause 12 letters patent', 
      
    ', 
  
  
', 

', 
    Try out the ', Virtual Legal Assistant',  to take your notes as you use the website, build your case briefs and professionally manage your legal research. Also try out our ', Query Alert Service',  and enjoy an ad-free experience. Become a ', Premium Member',  for ', free for three months',  and pay only if you like it.

', 


    ', 
      ', Supreme Court of India', 
', Jindal Vijayanagar Steel (Jsw ... vs Jindal Praxair Oxygen Company Ltd on 29 August, 2006', Author: . A Lakshmanan', 

', Bench: Dr. Ar. Lakshmanan, Lokeshwar Singh Panta', 

',            CASE NO.:
Appeal (civil)  3773 of 2006

PETITIONER:
Jindal Vijayanagar Steel (JSW Steel Ltd.)

RESPONDENT:
Jindal Praxair Oxygen Company Ltd.

DATE OF JUDGMENT: 29/08/2006

BENCH:
Dr. AR. Lakshmanan & Lokeshwar Singh Panta

JUDGMENT:
', J U D G M E N T
(Arising out of SLP (C) No. 7078/2006)


Dr. AR. Lakshmanan, J.
', 

', 	Leave granted.
', 
', The above appeal was filed by the appellant seeking 
special leave to appeal against the final order dated 
02.03.2006 passed by the High Court of Bombay in Arbitration 
Petition No. 459 of 2004.  By the said order, the High Court, 
according to the appellant, has wrongly assumed jurisdiction 
to entertain petitions under ', Section 9',  of the Arbitration and 
', Conciliation Act', u", 1996 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Act') 
despite holding that the entire cause of action has arisen 
outside its territorial jurisdiction. 
", In other words, the appellant seek to impugn the 
judgment dated 02.03.2006 whereby the High Court has held 
that jurisdiction of the Court under the provisions of the 
', Arbitration Act',  may be assumed by a Court exercising 
jurisdiction in a place where no part of the cause of action has 
arisen, if the respondent being a Company has a Corporate 
Office at the place where the Court is moved.  
The facts leading to the filing of the above appeal are as 
follows:
', The appellant was in the process of setting up an 
integrated steel plant having the capacity of 1.25 million 
tonnes of the manufacture of iron and steel in Bellary District, 
Karnataka.  For its manufacturing operations, the appellant 
required large quantities of industrial gases, namely, oxygen, 
nitrogen and argon for such production.  To this end, the 
appellant, in conjunction with M/s Praxair Pacific Limited 
decided to enter into agreements to incorporate the 
respondent-Company in Karnataka.  The respondent-
Company was to set up an Air Separation Plant (ASP) in the 
same complex in Bellary, Karnataka for the purpose of 
supplying the appellant with the required quantities of 
industrial gases. 
', The respondent-Company was incorporated in Bangalore 
with a 50:50% share holding between the appellant and the 
Praxair Pacific Limited, which was subsequently changed to 
26:74%.  On 19.02.1996, Pipeline Supply Agreement (PSA) 
was entered into between the appellant and the respondent at 
Bangalore wherein the respondent would supply to the 
appellant its requirement of industrial gases, namely, gaseous 
oxygen, gaseous nitrogen and the gaseous argon.  Product 
Supply Agreement was entered into between the respondent 
and Praxair India Private Limited (PIPL), a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Praxair Pacific Limited at Bangalore for supply of 
liquid oxygen, nitrogen and argon to PIPL.  This agreement 
was entered into on 01.06.1996.  As several disputes/issues of 
technical and commercial nature in relation to the 
implementation of the PSA and the performance of the ASPs 
had arisen between the parties, the representatives of the 
appellant, respondent, Praxair Pacific Limited, Praxair Inc. and 
PIPL made in Singapore to resolve the issues. 
On 23.06.2002, an agreement was arrived at between the 
parties (Settlement Agreement).  The Settlement Agreement 
was approved by the Board of Directors of both the parties in 
Bangalore.  The interpretation of the obligations of parties 
under various provisions of the Settlement Agreement 
including the above provisions and the PSA is presently in 
dispute in arbitration invoked by the respondent against the 
appellant. 
', Accordingly, the respondent implemented those 
provisions of the Settlement Agreement which were favourable 
to it, whilst delaying the implementation of terms favourable to 
the appellant.  As a result thereof in various issues/disputes 
including all power norms, reimbursement of excise duty and 
income-tax claims, maintenance of adequate quantities of 
suppliable liquids in the storage tanks of the respondent etc. 
arose between the parties. 
', To settle the disputes, the respondent invoked dispute 
resolution process pursuant to ', Article 17',  of the PSA by issuing 
a notice from Bellary, Karnataka to the appellant in Bellary 
Karnataka. 
', Article 17',  of the Dispute Resolution reads as follows:
"17.1.  In the event that a party to this Agreement has 
reasonable grounds to believe that the other Party 
hereto has failed to fulfill any obligations hereunder or, 
that its expectation of receiving due performance under 
this Agreement may be impaired, such Party will 
promptly notify the other party in writing of the 
substance of its belief.  The party receiving such notice 
must respond in writing within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of such notice and either provide evidence of 
cure of the condition specified, or provide an 
explanation of why is that its performance is in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement, and also specify three (3) dates, all of which 
must be within thirty (30) days from the date of its 
response, for a meeting to resolve the dispute.  The 
claiming party will then select one (1) of the three (3) 
dates, and a dispute resolution meeting will be held at 
the place specified by the responding party.  Each party 
shall have the right to require that individuals 
representing Buyer and Seller who have the authority to 
execute this Agreement or amendments thereto, be in 
attendance at the dispute resolution meeting.  If the 
parties cannot, in good faith discussions, resolve their 
dispute, they shall submit the dispute to arbitration in 
the manner set forth below in ', Article 17.2

17.2', 	Any dispute, controversy, or claim arising out of or 
relating to this Agreement, or the breach, termination, 
non-performance, interpretation of the respective rights 
and liabilities of the parties under the Agreement; or 
invalidity thereof which cannot be fully and 
satisfactorily resolved or settled by the parties hereto 
pursuant to ', Section 17', .1 shall, at the request of either 
party, be submitted to, and be settled by arbitration, 
which shall, except to the extent provided herein, be 
held in accordance with the Rules of the U.N. 
Commission of International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) 
("Rules") in effect on the date of this Agreement except 
as modified by this ', Article 17.2.',   This ', Article 17.2',  shall 
supercede any Conflicting provision of the Rules. 
', 
', (i) The number of arbitrators shall be two (2), one (1) 
each appointed by the respective parties.  The two 
arbitrators shall within 30 days of the appointment of 
the second arbitrator appoint an Umpire.  If the two 
arbitrators are unable to agree upon the appointment of 
the Umpire within the aforesaid period, then either 
party may ask the Secretary General of the Permanent 
Court of Arbitration at the Hague to appoint the Umpire.  
The arbitrators and the Umpire shall have expertise in 
the area of corporate law and shall be disinterested 
persons of either Indian, English or United States 
nationality except that the Umpire shall be of British or 
Swiss nationality and shall have had no previous 
dealing or relationship, direct or indirect, with either of 
the parties.  The arbitration shall be conducted in 
Bombay, India.  Any decision or resolution of the 
dispute shall be based on Indian law (except that British 
law shall apply to procedural matters such as appeals), 
shall be a unanimous decision of the arbitrators or the 
Umpire if the arbitrators cannot agree, and shall be set 
forth in a reasoned written opinion, based on applicable 
law, stating the reasons with legal basis for the decision.  
The proceedings shall be conducted in English in 
facilities, arranged for by the arbitrators and Umpire 
held at such time, as the arbitrators and Umpire shall 
direct. 
', 
', (ii) The arbitration proceeding shall be initiated by a 
Party lending an arbitration demand to the other party.  
The demand shall be sent in accordance with ', Article 
17.2',  of this Agreement.  The demand shall be sent to 
the Party at the address and to the individual specified 
in ', Article 17.2.', 
', 
', (iii) .
', (iv)
', (v)."
', A meeting was held at Mumbai between the 
representatives of the parties on 04.10.2004.  However, the 
respondent filed a petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act in the 
Bombay High Court being Arbitration Petition No. 459 of 2004.  
The respondent, on 14.10.2004, issued notice of arbitration 
pursuant to ', Article 17.2',  of the PSA.  The notice of arbitration 
was issued by the respondent in Bellary, Karnataka and 
served upon the appellant in Bellary and Bangalore, 
Karnataka.  The appellant wrote a letter pointing out that 
unilateral action threatened by the respondent was contrary to 
the letter and spirit of the PSA read with the Settlement 
Agreement, as the respondent was under the obligation to first 
meet the product requirements of the appellant.  The 
appellant, in view of the urgent need to protect its interests, 
filed Arbitration Petition No. 9 of 2005 before the Principal 
District Judge, Bellary on 06.02.2005 seeking appropriate 
orders to restrain the respondent from breaching the PSA read 
with the Settlement Agreement. On 07.02.2005, an interim 
order was passed by the Principal District Judge, Bellary 
restraining the respondent from insisting upon an artificial 
ceiling of 40 TPD of LAR.  The respondent filed an I.A. No.4 in 
the said arbitration petition under Section 151 of the CPC read 
with ', Section 42', u" of the Arbitration Act to dismiss the 
arbitration petition filed by the appellant at Bellary.  On 
05.03.2005, the Principal District Judge, Bellary dismissed 
I.A. No. 4 in arbitration petition and held that as the entire 
cause of action had arisen in Bellary, the Bellary Court had 
jurisdiction to decide the matter.  An appeal was preferred by 
the respondent against the order passed by the Principal 
District Judge, High Court of Karnataka which allowed the 
appeal filed by the respondent and directed that the issue of 
jurisdiction would have to be decided by the Bombay High 
Court in respondent's Arbitration Petition No. 459 of 2004.  By 
the impugned order dated 02.03.2006, the Bombay High 
Court held that it had the jurisdiction to entertain Arbitration 
Petition No. 459 of 2004.  Hence the present appeal.
The High Court, in para 16 of its order, has held as 
under:-
", "16.  Under the circumstances, by virtue of clause 12 of 
the Letters Patent, this Court has jurisdiction to 
entertain this Petition as the respondent is having 
corporate office in Mumbai from where it was carrying 
on its business.  Moreover, since during the pendency of 
this petition the registered office of the respondent has 
also been shifted to Mumbai, it is needless to say that 
the respondent is carrying on business in Mumbai.  
Therefore, this Court has jurisdiction to entertain the 
petition.  I, therefore, reject the contention raised on 
behalf of the respondent that this Court has no 
jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed under ', Section 
9',  of the Arbitration  & ', Conciliation Act', , 1996." 
', 
', We heard Mr. R.F. Nariman, learned senior counsel for 
the appellant and Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel 
for the respondent.  Mr. R.F. Nariman submitted that:
', a)	the High Court erred in rejecting the contention 
of the appellant that the Bombay High Court had 
no jurisdiction to entertain the petition filed by 
the respondent in the Bombay High Court under 
', Section 9',  of the Act; 
', b)	the High Court erred in holding that by virtue of 
Clause 12 of the Letters Patent Act, the Bombay 
High Court has jurisdiction to entertain the 
petition filed by the respondent in the Bombay 
High Court;
', c)	the High Court failed to appreciate that as per 
', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act, only a court having 
jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the 
subject-matter of the arbitration if the same had 
been the subject-matter of a suit, would have 
jurisdiction under the act;
', d)	the High Court failed to appreciate that being a 
special enactment for arbitration, the provisions 
of the Act would prevail over the provisions of the 
Letters Patent when determining questions under 
the Act, including questions as to jurisdiction;
', e)	the High Court ought to have appreciated that for 
a court to exercise jurisdiction under ', section 9',  of 
the Act, the court must be a "Court" as defined 
under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act and where the 
cause of action has arisen;
', f)	the High Court, after observing in paragraph 7 of 
the Impugned Order that no part of the cause of 
action had arisen at Mumbai failed to appreciate 
that it was only the Bellary Courts, which had 
the jurisdiction to entertain disputes arising from 
the PSA and the Settlement Agreement since the 
entire cause of action had arisen in Mumbai;
', g)	the High Court erred in ignoring the settled law 
that it is the situs of cause of action and not the 
place of business, which is the deciding factor in 
determining jurisdiction under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of 
the Act;
', h)	the High Court failed to appreciate that the mere 
venue of arbitration, and situs of the corporate 
office of the respondent does not vest jurisdiction 
in a court under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act. 
It is also contended that the judgment of this Court in 
', Food Corporation of India vs. Evdomen Corporation', , 
(1999) 2 SCC 446 is per incuriam. 
', It is the contention of Mr. Nariman that the High Court 
has failed to notice and appreciate that the cause of action as 
set out hereunder arose in Bellary:
', a)	the disputes raised by both the parties emanate 
from the maintenance of product levels 
stored/supplied from the plants of both the 
parties, which are situated in Bellary, Karnataka;
', b)	at the relevant time, the registered office of the 
appellant was situated in Bellary, Karnataka;
', c)	the registered office of the respondent is situated 
in Bellary, Karnataka;
', d)	the action threatened by the respondent to limit 
the supply of Liquid Argon ("LAR") up to 40 
Tonnes per day ("TPD") was proposed to be made 
in Bellary, Karnataka;
', e)	the consequences of such actions would also 
have an effect on the plant of the appellant and 
the ancillary units in the same situated in 
Bellary;
', f)	the entire chain of events leading to the 
unilateral threat issued by the respondent to 
restrict the supply of Liquid Argon occurred in 
Bellary. 
', The High Court also is not correct in holding that since 
during the pendency of the petition filed by the respondent 
before it, the Registered Office of the appellant had shifted to 
Mumbai, the appellant was carrying on business in Mumbai, 
and that this would vest jurisdiction in the Bombay High 
Court under ', Section 9',  of the Act, in relation to disputes which 
had arisen prior to the shifting of the Registered Office.  
According to learned senior counsel, the subsequent 
events do not retrospectively confer jurisdiction upon Courts 
to entertain pending cases, where there was no jurisdiction to 
entertain them at inception and that the sole intention of the 
respondent in filing a petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act before 
the Bombay High Court was to oust the jurisdiction of the 
competent Court under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act and that the 
High Court by claiming jurisdiction rendered the petition filed 
in the Bellary Court by the appellant nugatory and ineffective. 
Mr. Nariman also submitted that the test under ', Section 
2(e)',  of the Act applies uniformly across India and that the 
principle in the explanation to Section 20 CPC should be 
applied to Clause 20 of the Bombay Letters Patent.  
Concluding his argument, Mr. Nariman submitted that the 
High Court in passing the impugned order has mis-interpreted 
the provisions of the Act and Clause 12 of the Letters Patent 
and the net effect of the impugned order is that it renders 
nugatory the competency of the Courts having jurisdiction 
where admittedly the entire cause of action has arisen.  
Further it affords jurisdiction to courts on the basis of an 
enactment, namely, the Letters Patent which would not apply 
since in arbitration matters, jurisdiction must be solely 
determined by ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of the Act. 
', Mr. C.A. Sundaram, learned senior counsel appearing for 
the respondent submitted that an order holding that the Court 
has no jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off an 
arbitration petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act would 
necessarily imply or entail a refusal to grant relief under 
', Section 9',  of the Act and that such an order would, therefore, 
be an order under ', Section 9',  of the Act and would, therefore, 
be appealable.  In other words, where a Court holds that it has 
jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off a petition under 
', Section 9',  of the Act, such determination of an issue would be 
one in aid of determination of an issue under ', Section 9',  and 
would, therefore, also be a decision under ', Section 9',  of the Act. 
It is, therefore, submitted that an order on the issue of 
jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off an arbitration 
petition under ', Section 9',  of the Act is clearly an appealable 
order under ', Section 37(1)(a)',  of the Act. 
', Since the matter was argued on merits, we do not 
propose to consider the submission on the maintainability of 
the appeal in this Court and we proceed to consider the rival 
claims on merits as advanced by the respective senior counsel 
appearing on either side. 
', According to Mr. Sundaram, the Bombay High Court has 
jurisdiction to entertain, try and dispose off the said 
arbitration petition for the following reasons:
', a)	The High Court of Bombay is a Chartered Court 
under the Letters Patent;
', b)	Clause XII of Letters Patent prescribes the 
jurisdiction of a Chartered Court;
', Clause XII of the Letters Patent reads as under:-
"Original jurisdictions as to suits.- And We do further 
ordain that the said High Court of Judicature at 
Bombay, in the exercise of its ordinary original civil 
jurisdiction, shall be empowered to receive, try, and 
determine suits of every description, if, in the case of 
suits for land or other immovable property such land or 
property shall be situated, or in all other cases if the 
cause of action shall have arisen, either wholly, or, in 
case the leave of the Court shall have been first 
obtained, in part, within the local limits of the ordinary 
original jurisdiction of the said High Court or if the 
defendant at the time of the commencement of the suit 
shall dwell or carry on business, or personally work for 
gain, within such limits; except that the said High Court 
shall not have such original jurisdiction in cases falling 
within the jurisdiction of the Small Cause Court at 
Bombay, or the Bombay City Civil Court."
', 
', According to learned senior counsel, the Bombay High 
Court would have jurisdiction under Clause XII of the Letters 
Patent; if a defendant dwells or carries on business or works 
for gain within the limits of Mumbai.  Where the cause of 
action has accrued wholly or in part within or without the 
limits of the said jurisdiction is wholly irrelevant in the 
circumstances.  Explaining further, Mr. Sundaram submitted 
that, in the present case, at the time of filing of ', Section 9',  
petition, the appellant had its Corporate Office at Mumbai and 
was, therefore, carrying on business within the local limits of 
the Oridinary Original Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court.  
During the pendency of the said ', Section 9',  petition, the 
Registered Office of the appellant was transferred to Mumbai.  
At the time when the issue of jurisdiction was argued before 
the learned Single Judge, the Registered Office of the appellant 
had already been transferred to and was situated in Mumbai 
within the local limits of the Ordinary Original Jurisdiction of 
the Bombay High Court. 
', It is submitted that by Section 120 of the CPC, various 
sections of the Code including ', Section 20',  thereof, are made 
inapplicable to Chartered High Courts like the Bombay High 
Court.  Therefore, it is submitted that for determining the 
question of jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court as a 
Chartered Court, the provisions of Section 20 of the CPC are 
inapplicable and that only the provisions of Clause XII of the 
Letters Patent are applicable.  Mr. Sundaram submitted 
further that the jurisdiction of a Court under ', Section 2(1)(e)',  of 
the 1996 Act is not in any manner restricted to the situs of the 
cause of action and that it is inconceivable that the legislature 
could have intended to restrict or circumscribe the scope and 
ambit of the jurisdiction of the Court under ', Section 2',  (i) (e) of 
the 1996 Act and make it inferior to the jurisdiction of the 
Court prescribed under the Code of CPC or Letters Patent.
We have given our careful consideration to the rival 
submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for 
the parties.  We shall now consider the arguments advanced 
by both the learned senior counsel.
', This case deals with the original civil jurisdiction of the 
Bombay High Court which is governed by its Letters Patent.  
Clause XII whereof founds its jurisdiction.  By virtue of Section 
120 CPC Sections 16, 17 and 20 CPC are expressly made 
inapplicable to the Bombay High Court.  Mr. Nariman 
submitted that the Division Bench decision of this Court in 
', Food Corporation of India vs. Evdomen Corporation', , 
(supra) has, without reference to the squarely applicable and 
binding precedent in the ', Patel Roadways Limited, Bombay 
vs. Prasad Trading Company', u", (1991) 4 SCC 270, wrongly 
held that despite the disjunctive term 'or' used in the 
explanation to Section 20 CPC, a Corporation would be 
deemed to be carrying on business at its principal office and 
also at the subordinate office situated at the place  in which 
the cause of action arose.  He submitted that the said Division 
Bench decision is per incuriam the decision of this Court in 
Patel Roadways Limited case (supra) and, therefore, cannot 
be said to have laid down the correct law in this regard.  He 
would further submit that the Division Bench of this Court in 
Food Corporation of India case (supra) also erred in failing to 
consider the crucial question of whether the provisions of 
Letters Patent should be interpreted in the light of the 
principles enshrined in the pari materia provisions of the CPC.  
He would further submit that a three-Judge Bench of this 
Court in the case of Patel Roadways Limited case (supra) 
held that the explanation to ", Section 20',  is purely clarificatory 
and does not extend the principle enunciated in ', Section 20', u".  
Further, it has held that in view of the term 'or' used in the 
explanation to Section 20 CPC a Corporation would be deemed 
to be carrying on business only at the place at which the 
cause of action arose, provided that it had a subordinate office 
at that place, failing which, it would be deemed to be carrying 
on business only at the place at which it maintained its 
principal office.  It is, therefore, submitted that the same 
principle in ", Section 20',  including the clarification made by the 
explanation, should be read in Clause 12 of the Letters Patent. 
In our opinion, no good reason has been made out in 
reconsideration of the judgment in Food Corporation of India 
case (supra).  The reasons are as under:
', In our view, a judgment of this Court will not be 
reconsidered unless a subsequent Bench believes it has laid 
down wrong principles of law by ignoring a provision of law or 
otherwise not following a direct binding precedent.  In the 
instant case, this Court in Food Corporation of India case 
(supra) followed the provision of law i.e. Clause 12 of Letters 
Patent and Section 120 CPC which itself made the provisions  
Section 16, 17 and 20 CPC inapplicable.  The judgment of this 
Court will not be referred for reconsideration by a subsequent 
coordinate Bench merely because the subsequent Bench may 
have arrived at a different conclusion had there not been an 
earlier judgment.  That law is the principle of stare decisis 
adopted and followed in the Indian Courts.  None of the 
conditions necessary for reconsidering an earlier direct 
precedent has arisen in the instant case.  Hence, the 
submission made by Mr. Nariman in this context has no force. 
', 
', JURISDICTION OF THE COURT:
', 	Mr. Nariman submitted that the test under ', Section 2(e)',  of 
the Act applies uniformly across India.  The Arbitration and 
', Conciliation Act', , 1996 is the ', Central Act',  and lays down a 
single, uniform law in respect of arbitration and conciliation 
for the whole of India and, therefore, submitted that it must be 
read to lay down principles that apply uniformly across the 
country. 
', 	It is submitted that ', Section 2(e)', u" of the 1996 Act defines 
the term 'court' and in doing so, it lays down the test to 
determine which the court has the jurisdiction to supplement 
and complement arbitration proceedings.  It is submitted that 
", Section 2(e)', u" must be read to lay down one uniform test to 
determine the 'court' of competent jurisdiction for application 
across the country, regardless of whether the principal Civil 
Court of ordinary jurisdiction referred to in the said test is a 
High Court or a District Court.  
", 	In our view, an arbitration petition is required to be filed 
in a Court having jurisdiction.  The definition of the "Court" 
under the 1996 Act is as follows:-
', "Sec.2(e): "Court" means the principal Civil Court of 
original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High 
Court in exercise of its original civil jurisdiction, having 
jurisdiction to decide the questions forming the 
subject-matter of the arbitration if the same had been 
the subject-matter of a suit, but does not include any 
Civil Court of a grade inferior to such principal Civil 
Court, or any Court Of Small Causes;"             
',                                                        (emphasis supplied)

"Court" has been defined in the ', Arbitration Act', , 1940 as 
follows:-
', "Sec. 2(c): "Court" means a Civil Court having jurisdiction 
to decide the questions forming the subject-matter of the 
reference if the same had been the subject-matter of a 
suit, but does not except for the purpose of arbitration 
proceedings under ', section 21',  includes a Small Cause 
Court;"
', 
', The definition of "Court" in the two sections are, 
therefore, pari materia except that under the 1996 Act, the 
definition restricts Subordinate Courts competent to hear such 
matters to the Principal Civil Court and expressly includes 
High Courts in exercise of their original civil jurisdiction. 
On a plain reading of the definition of "Court" under 
', section 2(e)',  of the 1996 Act, it is evident that the Arbitration 
Petition can be filed before:-
', (i)	a principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction in  
district. 
', (ii)	a High Court in exercise of its original civil 
jurisdictionhaving jurisdiction to decide the 
questions forming the subject matter of the 
arbitration if the same had been the subject 
matter of a suit.
', For the purpose of the present Petition under ', Section 9',  of 
the 1996 Act, we are concerned with the jurisdiction of the 
Bombay High Court which is a Chartered High Court under 
the Letters Patent exercising Original Civil Jurisdiction. It is 
relevant that there are only three Chartered High Courts in 
India which exercise jurisdiction under their respective Letters 
Patent which continue to apply in full force and effect which 
Letters Patent are inter alia protected by ', Article 225',  of the 
Constitution.
', Mr. Nariman submitted that the principle in the 
explanation to Section 20 CPC should be applied to Clause 12 
of the Bombay Letters Patent.  It is submitted that although 
admittedly, Section 20 of the CPC does not, in terms, apply to 
the High Court in exercise of its original civil jurisdiction, it is 
settled law that the principles of the CPC should nevertheless 
be applied, as far as possible, to proceedings of a civil nature, 
even where the application of the CPC has been barred.  This 
Court has, in the case of ', Sarguja Transport Service vs. 
State Transport Appellate Tribunal, M.P. Gwalior & Ors', ., 
(1987) 1 SCC 5, held that principles from the CPC can and 
should be applied even to writ proceedings, despite the fact 
that the explanation to Section 141 of the CPC, expressly 
states that the stipulation in ', Section 141',  that the procedure 
provided in the CPC shall be followed, as far as it can be made 
applicable, in all proceedings in any Court of civil jurisdiction, 
does not apply to proceedings under ', Article 226',  of the 
Constitution. 
', It is submitted that Clause 12 of the Bombay Letters 
Patent is in pari materia with Section 20 of the CPC.  Both 
provisions deal with the jurisdiction of a court of ordinary 
original civil jurisdiction, and they set out similar tests for the 
determination of where a suit may be filed. 
Clause 12 of the Letters Patent states that a suit may be 
filed in either the Madras, Calcutta or Bombay High Court in 
the following circumstances:
', " if the cause of action shall have arisen, either wholly, 
or, in case the leave of the Court shall have been first 
obtained, in part, within the local limits of the ordinary 
original jurisdiction of the said High Court, or if the 
defendant at the time of the commencement of the suit 
shall dwell or carry on business or personally work for 
gain, within such limits". 
', It may thus be noted that Section 20 of the CPC and 
Clause 12 of the Letters Patent lay down the same test for 
determining the court of appropriate jurisdiction in which to 
proceed against a non-corporate defendant.  It is submitted 
that in the absence of any reason to believe that there was any 
intention to apply different tests in the CPC and the Letters 
Patent to determine the appropriate forum to sue a corporate 
defendant, it cannot be said that the two statutes provide 
different tests, and that the principles in one cannot be used 
to interpret the principle in the other. 
', The above argument was countered by Mr. C.A. 
Sundaram under Section 120 of CPC, 1908.  The provisions of 
Sections 16, 17 and 20 of the Code of CPC are inapplicable to 
Chartered High Courts exercising Original Civil Jurisdiction 
under the Letters Patent.  ', Section 120',  reads as follows: 
"', Section 120', "- Provisions not applicable to High Court 
in original civil jurisdiction- (1) The following provisions 
shall not apply to the high Court in the exercise of its 
original civil jurisdiction, namely, ', section 16', , ', 17',  and 
', 20."
', 
', u"Thus for the purpose of determining the Original Civil 
Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court, Section 20 of the CPC 
1908 has been specifically excluded and has no application. 
Only the provisions of clause 12 of the Letters Patent are 
required to be considered to determine the jurisdiction of the 
Hon'ble Bombay High Court.
", Under Clause 12 of the Letters Patent, the Bombay High 
Court would have jurisdiction to entertain and try an 
Arbitration Petition even if no cause of action has arisen 
within its jurisdiction, provided the Respondent has an office 
at Mumbai.
', This Court in Food Corporation case while considering 
the definition of "Court" under ', section 2(c)',  of the 1940 Act has 
held that: 
', (i)	jurisdiction of a Chartered High court is to be 
determined by clause 12 of the Letters Patent. 
', (ii)	by virtue of the section 120 of the CPC, 1908, the 
provisions of section 20 of the CPC do not apply to 
Chartered High Courts (such as Bombay) exercising 
original civil jurisdiction. 
', u"(iii)	that under clause 12  of the Letters Patent, the 
Bombay High Court would have jurisdiction over 
the subject matter of arbitration if the Respondent 
has an office in Mumbai, regardless of the fact that 
no cause of action may have arisen at Mumbai.
By such judgment this Hon'ble Court merely expressed 
the law as it stands and as is ex facie clear from the applicable 
Statutes/provisions of law.
", The appellant, in the present case, concedes that by 
virtue of the judgment of Food Corporation of India case 
(supra), the Bombay High Court would have jurisdiction to 
entertain and try the ', Section 9',  petition.  However, the 
appellant contends the judgment in the Food Corporation of 
India case is per incuriam requiring reconsideration and 
should be referred to a larger Bench of this Court since it 
failed to consider the judgment of this Court in the case of 
Patel Roadways Limited (supra).
', This Court in Patel Roadways Limited case held:
', (i)	an action can be filed in a Court where a 
subordinate office of the Defendant is situated if a 
part of the cause of action has arisen thereat. 
', (ii)	no action would lie in a court within whose 
jurisdiction the principal office of the Defendant is 
situated if no cause of action has arisen thereat.
Section 20 CPC reads as under:
', "20. Other suits to be instituted where defendants 
reside or cause of action arises- Subject to the 
limitations aforesaid, every suit shall be instituted 
in a court within the local limits of whose 
jurisdiction- 
', 
', (a) the defendant, or each of the defendants where 
there are more than one, at the time of the 
commencement of the suit, actually and voluntarily 
resides, or carries on business, or personally works 
for gain; or 

', (b) any of the defendants, where there are more 
than one, at the time of the commencement of the 
suit, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries on 
business or personally works for gain, provided 
that in such case either the leave of the Court is 
given, or the defendants who do not reside, or 
carry on business, or personally work for gain, as 
aforesaid, acquiesce in such institution; or 

', (c) the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises

Explanation- A corporation shall be deemed to 
carry on business at its sole or principal office in 
India or, in respect of any place where it has also a 
subordinate office, at such place."
', 
', It is ex facie clear from the section that a suit can be filed 
where a part of the cause of action arises or where the 
principal office is located meaning thereby that what their 
Lordships in the Patel Roadways case held that was that a suit 
can be filed where a subordinate office is situate if a part of 
the cause of action arises or otherwise only where the 
principal office is situate.
', In Food Corporation case, this court pointed out that as 
per ', section 20',  (and a mere perusal of such section would show 
this is so) a suit can be filed where the cause of action arises 
or where the principal office is situate. In any event, it is 
submitted that such observation was merely obiter in seeing 
out what section 20 CPC stated and formed no part of the 
judgment and ratio decidendi, since this court then proceeded 
to hold that ', section 20',  had no application to the Bombay High 
Court by virtue of section 120 CPC (which was never a matter 
in issue in the Patel Roadways case) but was the only matter 
in issue in the Food Corporation case and proceeded to 
consider the jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court under 
clause 12 of its Letters Patent. While doing so, an 
interpretation of section 20 CPC became totally unnecessary 
for arriving at its decision in the Food Corporation case and in 
fact was not applied at all. There is therefore, no question of 
this court in the Food Corporation of India case failing to 
consider whether the provisions of the Letter Patent should be 
interpreted in light of the principles of the CPC.
The only ground on which the appellant seeks 
reconsideration of the Food Corporation case is that as per the 
appellant the interpretation of Section 20 of CPC in the Food 
Corporation case (supra) is erroneous and contrary to the 
judgment of the Supreme Court in the Patel Roadways case 
(supra) in that it erroneously interprets the explanation to 
section 20of the CPC, 1908. As stated above, even assuming 
without admitting that the appellant is correct, the said 
statement of the Food Corporation case was purely obiter qua 
the issue to be decided and the reason behind it therein and 
can never be the basis for a subsequent Bench to refer the 
same for reconsideration.
', Furthermore, the appellant loses sight of the fact that the 
judgment in the Patel Roadways case is clearly distinguishable 
on facts since in that case this Court was dealing with the 
jurisdiction of the 3rd Assistant City Civil Judge, Chennai who 
was governed by the CPC and the ', section 20',  therefore and not 
by the Letters Patent. It is for this reason that in the Patel 
Roadways case the Court was only concerned with section 20 
CPC and was in no way concerned with the Letters Patent 
jurisdiction. In fact, nowhere in the Patel Roadways judgment 
is there a whisper on the scope of either the Letters Patent 
jurisdiction of the High Court or section 120 CPC which will 
clearly distinguish the Patel Roadways case both on facts and 
law from the instant case or the Food Corporation case 
decided by this Court.
', The appellant has also urged that:
', (i) even if section 20 of the CPC, 1908 is not applicable to 
the Bombay High Court, the principles of the section and 
in particular explanation to ', section 20',  would be attracted 
when corporations are being sued and relies on the 
judgment of this Court in Sarguja Transport case 
(supra) where the Supreme Court held that even though 
section 141 of the CPC, 1908 did not apply to writ 
petitions, the principles would be applicable.
', (ii) that a "Uniformity Rule" on jurisdiction should be 
applied to all courts in the country since the 1996 Act is 
a central Statute.
', In our opinion, the argument of Mr. Nariman that the 
principles of Section 20 of the Code can be applied to Letters 
Patent has no substance and merit.  
', The principles of ', Section 20',  cannot be made applicable to 
clause 12 of the Letters Patent since the CPC itself by ', section 
120',  specifically excludes the applicability of Section 20 of the 
CPC to Chartered High Courts. It is submitted that when the 
CPC itself provides that ', Section 20',  is specifically excluded, the 
principles of ', Section 20',  cannot be made applicable or be 
attracted when a corporation is being sued under the Letters 
Patent. The judgment of this Court in Sarguja Transport case 
(1987) 1 SCC 5 cannot apply for the following reasons:-
', (i)	the principles of CPC were made applicable to Writ 
Petitions on the premise that these would not be 
contrary to the provisions of ', Article 226.', 
', u"(ii)	If the appellant's argument is accepted it would 
render section 120 of the CPC nugatory and otiose 
since ", section 120',  expressly refers to three sections 
(i.e. ', sections 16', , ', 17',  and ', 20', ) and makes them 
inapplicable.
', (iii)	The Letters Patent, is a special charter conferring 
jurisdiction on Chartered High Courts. When there 
is a special enactment such as the Letters Patent, 
which expressly lays down the criteria on the 
jurisdiction of the Chartered High Court, it is totally 
unnecessary and in fact futile to refer to another 
legislation such as the CPC (which is not applicable) 
to determine the jurisdiction of the Chartered High 
Court.
', (iv)	The facts in the Sarguja Transport Case (supra) 
were entirely different since there was no 
corresponding legislation which laid down the 
territorial of the Court exercising Writ Jurisdiction.
Thus the judgment of this Court in Sarguja transport 
case cannot be applied in the facts of the present case.
Our attention was drawn to the decision of a Constitution 
Bench of this Court in the case of P.S. Sathappan (dead) by 
LRs. Vs. Andhra Bank Ltd. and Others, (2004) 11 SCC 672 
in para 32 this Court has held has follows:-
". To submit that a Letters Patent is a subordinate piece of 
legislation is to not understand the true nature of a Letters 
Patent. As has been held in Vinita Khanolkar case and 
Sharda Devi case a Letters Patent is the Charter of the High 
Court. As held in Shah Babulal Khimji case a Letters Patent 
is the specific law under which a High Court derives its 
powers. It is not any subordinate piece of legislation. As set 
out in the aforementioned two cases a Letters Patent cannot 
be excluded by implication. Further it is settled law that 
between a special law and a general law the special all will 
always prevail.  A Letters Patent is a special law for the 
High Court concerned.  The Civil Procedure code is a general 
law applicable to all courts.  It is well settled law, that in the 
event of a conflict between a special law and a general law, 
the special law must always prevail."
', 
', Thus neither of the CPC nor its principles can be made 
applicable to the Letters Patent qua sections 16,17 and 20 of 
CPC. It is therefore not only impermissible but also 
unnecessary to apply the CPC or import the principles of 
section 20 of the CPC into the Letters Patent more so when the 
court has already held in the FCI case that the jurisdiction of 
the Civil Court under section 20 of CPC is different from the 
jurisdiction of the High Court under clause 12 of Letters 
Patent.
', u"The appellant has urged that P.S. Satthappan's case will 
apply only in case there is a conflict between the Letters 
Patent and the CPC and that there is no conflict. Such a 
submission, in our view, is clearly fallacious for the following 
reasons:
", (i)	the Letters Patent  and CPC operate in separate 
fields i.e. The Letters Patent specifically conferring 
jurisdiction on Chartered High Courts and the CPC 
conferring jurisdiction on all other courts.
', (ii)	There is clearly a difference between the scope of 
the Letters Patent and the CPC. The difference being 
evident upon a plain reading of section 120 of the 
CPC.
', u"Mr. Nariman, in reply to the above submission of Mr. 
Sundaram, contended that the above decision supports the 
appellant's stand, since there is no conflict whatsoever 
between relevant provisions of the Letters Patent and the CPC 
in the instant case.  It is submitted that clause 12 of Letters 
Patent and Section 20 of CPC are in pari materia and sets out 
similar test for the determination of where a suit may be filed 
and that the appellant is merely seeking to apply the 
additional clarificatory principle relating to corporate 
defendants stated in Section 20 of CPC to Clause 12 of the 
Letters Patent.  It is, therefore, submitted that the decision of 
this Court in P.S. Sathappan case (supra) does not detract 
from the appellant's contention but in fact supports its 
contention. 
", UNIFORMITY RULE:         
', There is no question of uniformity rules applying since 
', section 2(e)',  of the 1996 Act expressly recognizes that not only 
district courts but also High Courts exercising original civil 
jurisdiction would have jurisdiction under the 1996 Act. ', The 
Act',  thus recognizes that Chartered High Courts exercising 
Original Civil Jurisdiction would exercise jurisdiction. It is 
submitted that apart from the 3 Chartered High Courts who 
are governed by the Letters Patent only two other High Courts 
in the country (Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir under their 
respective ', High Courts Act', s) exercise original civil jurisdiction. 
This issue is therefore not question of all India application as 
it does not affect jurisdiction of most High Courts. There is 
therefore no question of a "uniformity rule" being required to 
be applied. There cannot be a rule of uniformity applied 
between unlikes. The appellant seeks to apply such uniformity 
rule between the subordinate Courts (governed by the CPC) 
and the High Courts (governed by the Letters Patent). 
The appellant further cited:
', (i)	', Globe Cogeneration Power Ltd vs. Sri. Hiranyakeshi',  
(AIR 2005 Karn 94 (Karnataka High Court)
', (ii)	', Kamal Pushp Enterprises vs. Chairman Cum 
Managing Director, Gas Authority of India Ltd., 
(Vol', .31 DRJ 651) (Delhi High Court).
', for the proposition that the jurisdiction of the Court is 
not to be determined on the basis of the residence of the 
respondent but only on the basis of where the subject 
matter of arbitration is situated.
', In our view, neither of the two judgments above are 
applicable and in any event can be distinguished for the 
following reasons:-
', (a)	(i)	The judgment of the Karnataka High Court in the 
Globe Congeneration case(supra) was one where the 
litigant had initiated the proceedings in the City Civil 
Court (exercising jurisdiction under section 16(d) of the 
CPC, 1908) which is admittedly not a Chartered High 
Court Exercising jurisdiction under the Letters Patent. 
The city Civil Court was following 16(d) of CPC.
', (ii)	Further the Karnataka High Court was dealing with 
a case under section 16(d) of the CPC dealing with 
disputes relating to immovable property. It is well settled 
that an action can be instituted only in a Court where the 
immovable property is situated. Thus clause 12 of the 
Letters Patent never arose for consideration.
', u"(b)	(i) The judgment of the Delhi High Court in the Kamal 
Pushp Enterprise case (supra) was one where the Delhi 
High Court was interpreting section 20 of the CPC and 
not clause 12 of the Letters Patent. That this was clearly 
the case is made evident from the fact that the learned 
judge (Hon'ble Justice Lahoti as he then was) who 
rendered this judgment was a party to the Bench of this 
Court in the FCI case which was concerned with clause 
12 of the Letters Patent and applies with full force in this 
case.
", (c)	the interpretation of the key words "the questions 
forming" the subject matter have been completely 
overlooked and/or not given effect to by the Karnataka 
High Court and the Delhi High Court. The respondent 
submits that the subject matter of arbitration may be 
situated anywhere but a Chartered High Court would 
nonetheless have jurisdiction to decide "the questions" 
forming subject matter of arbitration if the requirements 
of clause 12 of the Letters Patent are satisfied.
', (d)	This Court in the FCI case which arose while interpreting 
', section 2(c)',  of the Arbitration Act (which is in pari 
materia with ', section 2(e)',  of the 1996 Act) qua clause 12 
of the Letters Patent has held that Bombay High Court 
would have jurisdiction under clause 12 of the Letters 
Patent if the respondent has an office in Mumbai even if 
no part of the cause of action has arisen thereat.
The appellant also relied upon the judgment of the High 
Court in ', Dayanand Prasad Sinha vs. Hindustan Steel',  
works Construction Ltd. (AIR 2001 CAL 71) to contend that 
where there is a conflict between the place of residence and of 
carrying business and the place where the cause of action has 
arisen, the Court must apply the test of forum conveniens and 
accept the place in respect of the cause of action as having 
overriding value over the place of residence and business.
It is submitted that under domestic law i.e. CPC or 
Letters Patent as the case may be, a plaintiff has the option of 
instituting proceedings in any of the courts which would have 
jurisdiction, the test of forum non convenience cannot be 
applied under Domestic Law and if applied would wrongfully 
restrict or negate the amplitude of the provisions of CPC and 
of the Letters Patent. The view of the Calcutta High Court is 
clearly erroneous in the light of the observation of this Court 
in the case of "', Khaleel Ahnmed vs. Hatti Gold Mines Co. 
Ltd', . (2000) 3 SCC 755 where this court has observed that " It 
cannot always be said in view of section 20 of the Code, that 
only one Court will have jurisdiction to try the suit". The said 
judgment of the Calcutta High Court is therefore erroneous 
and cannot and ought not to be relied upon. In any event the 
rule of Forum Conveniens is expressly excluded by ', section 42',  
of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which mandates that all future 
actions be filed only in the court where the first application 
with regard to a arbitration was filed.
', CAUSE OF ACTION: 
', Mr. Nariman, learned senior counsel submitted that the 
Bombay High Court has correctly come to the conclusion that 
no cause of action in relation to the present dispute has arisen 
in Bombay and that this finding has been recorded at 3 
separate places in the impugned judgment and has not been 
challenged by the respondent.  It is submitted that the 
Registered Offices of both the appellant and the respondent 
were situated in Bellary District at all relevant times.  Further, 
the plants of both the appellant and the respondent are 
situated in Bellary, the concerned products are supplied and 
payment in respect of them is made at Bellary, the alleged 
actions of the respondent took place at Bellary and the 
consequences allegedly emanating from these actions would 
be borne in Bellary.  Finally, the correspondence in relation to 
the threatened action also took place at Bellary.  
Mr. Nariman further submitted that as per the decision 
of this Court in Patel Roadways Limited, under ', Section 20', u", the 
place of business of a Corporation, for the purposes of the 
institution of a suit against it, would be the place at which the 
cause of action arose, if a subordinate office of the Corporation 
was located at that place, or failing which, the place of the 
principal office of the Corporation.  Therefore, he submitted 
that in the Patel Roadways judgment, it was held that the 
words 'place of business' used in Section 20(a) of the CPC 
would, in relation to a Corporation, refer exclusively to the 
place at which the cause of action arose, if a subordinate office 
of the Corporation was also situated there.  In such 
circumstance, no suit can be initiated in the court with 
jurisdiction over the principal office of the corporation under 
", Section 20(a)', .  It is only in cases where there is no subordinate 
office at the place at which the cause of action arose, that a 
suit may be instituted under ', Section 20(a)',  in the court with 
jurisdiction over the principal office of the corporation.  
Conversely, no suit may be instituted under ', Section 20(a)',  in 
the court with jurisdiction over the subordinate office unless 
the cause of action has also arisen within the same 
jurisdiction. 
', It is further urged that the contrary dicta of the Division 
Bench of this Court in the case of Food Corporation of India 
(supra) is per incurium the dicta in the Patel Roadways (supra) 
and further, it is erroneous in that it fails to consider the 
crucial question of whether the provisions of the Letters Patent 
should be interpreted in light of the principles enshrined in 
the pari materia provisions of the CPC.  Therefore, it is 
submitted that the Food Corporation of India case (supra) 
ought not to be relied upon as a precedent. 
', It is submitted that the principles governing Section 20 of 
the CPC as well as Clause 12 of the Letters Patent clearly 
direct that a suit may not be instituted at the situs of the 
subordinate office unless the cause of action also arose at 
such place. 
', u"It is, therefore, submitted that the Bombay High Court 
would not have had the jurisdiction to entertain the 
respondent's petition under ", Section 9',  of the Act, 1996 had 
Section 20 of the CPC applied to it.  Since Clause 12 of the 
Letters Patent incorporates and is based upon principles 
identical to those enshrined in Section 20 of the CPC, it is 
submitted that the Bombay High Court erred in holding that it 
had jurisdiction to entertain the said petition under Clause 12 
of the Letters Patent.  It is submitted that, since admittedly the 
entire cause of action in relation to the disputes between the 
parties had arisen in Bellary District, Karnataka, and since 
admittedly at the time of the institution of the Section 9 
Petition filed by both parties, the registered and principal 
offices of the parties were at Bellary, the only court with 
jurisdiction to entertain the said petitions was the appropriate 
court with jurisdiction at Bellary. 
', We considered the above argument of Mr. Nariman.  Our 
answer to the above argument is as under:-
', Though the Bombay High Court has in the impugned 
order dated 2.3.2006 observed that no part of the cause of 
action has arisen at Mumbai, it is submitted that the cause of 
action against the respondents has in fact arisen within the 
Ordinary Original Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court for 
the following reasons: It may be noted that the following sub 
paragraphs below have been noted by the Bombay High Court 
in impugned order dated 2.3.2006. 
', (a)	The parties themselves have chosen Mumbai to be the 
situs for the Arbitration proceedings (clause 17.2 (i) of the 
Agreement)
', (b)	The arbitration clause specifically provides for a dispute 
resolution meeting to be held to resolve the dispute 
between the parties as a pre-condition for invocation of 
the arbitration clause which meeting was held at Bombay 
at the request of the appellant.
', (c)	The Pipeline Supply Agreement (under which the 
disputes have arisen) was approved by the Board of 
Directors of the appellant Company in Bombay.
', (d)	The pipeline Supply Agreement as amended was reviewed 
and discussed by the Board of Directors of the appellant 
Company in Bombay.
', u"(e)	The Settlement Agreement dated 23.6.2003 was adopted 
at the meeting of the respondent Board of Directors 
where the appellant's nominees on the respondents 
Board were also present.
", (f)	That the entire Senior Management of the appellant is 
located at Mumbai. It may be noted that in ', Mayur (H.K) 
Ltd. & Ors vs. Owners & Parties', u", Vessel M. V. Fortune 
Express & Ors. (2006) 3 SCC 100 this Court (in para 27) 
observed that the principal place of business would be 
where the governing power of the Corporation is 
exercised or the place of a Corporation's Chief Executive 
Offices which is typically viewed as the verve centre or 
the place designated as the principal place of business of 
the Corporation in its incorporation under various 
statutes.
", (g)	when the ', section 9',  petition was filed the appellant had 
its office at Mumbai and was carrying on business at 
Mumbai and its Directors were stationed in Mumbai.
', (h)	The appellant had in fact shifted its registered office to 
Mumbai during the pendency of the ', section 9',  petition in 
the Bombay High Court as it was more convenient to 
operate its registered office from Mumbai. It is submitted 
that where a Court has jurisdiction to try the suit when it 
comes up for disposal, it then cannot refuse to assume 
jurisdiction by reason of the fact that it had no 
jurisdiction to entertain it at the date of institution as 
held in ', Sudhir G. Angur & Ors. vs. M. Sanjeev & Ors', . 
(2006) 1 SCC 141 para 11)
', (i)	That at the time the question of jurisdiction was heard 
and gone into and decided by the Bombay High Court, 
the Registered Office of the appellant had been shifted to 
and was in fact situated in Mumbai. The Bombay High 
Court in the case of Fazlehussein vs. Yusufully AIR 
1955 Bom 55, para 2 has held that:
', "Even if the Court had jurisdiction to entertain the suit 
as filed, if by reason of subsequent events the Court has 
lost jurisdiction to entertain or try the suit, the Court 
will not be justified in dealing with the suit with 
reference to circumstances as they existed at the date of 
the institution of the suit but must proceed to decide 
the dispute on the footing that if the suit had been filed 
at the later date, the Court would have been 
incompetent to grant the reliefs in respect of the 
properties and of the persons who are not within the 
limits of the jurisdiction of the Court.  Normally, a Court 
must have regard to circumstances existing as at the 
date when the issue of jurisdiction is tried and must 
decide it in the light of circumstances existing as at that 
date." 					    (emphasis supplied)

It may be noted that when the section 9 Petition was 
tried in Bombay on the issue of jurisdiction, the Respondent 
had transferred its registered office to Mumbai.
It is submitted that the ratio for this would be that 
territorial jurisdiction does not go to the competence of the 
Court as in the case of a court having jurisdiction on the 
subject matter of the dispute.
', That is why if a court has no territorial jurisdiction (but 
is otherwise competent to hear a matter) should the matter be 
heard and decided by such Court without demur, the 
judgment will be valid and not void or non est. It is for this 
reason that insofar as territorial jurisdiction is concerned, the 
relevant time to determine the existence of the jurisdiction 
would be when the matter is heard.
', SUBSEQUENT SHIFT OF REGISTERED OFFICE CANNOT 
GIVE RISE TO JURISDICTION:
', 
', Mr. Nariman contended that the subsequent shift of 
Registered Office cannot give rise to jurisdiction 
He submitted that the Letters Patent specifically and 
expressly refers to the time of commencement of the suit as 
the relevant time to determine jurisdiction of the Court.  It 
states that:
', 	" if the cause of action shall have arisen, either 
wholly, or, in case the leave of the Court shall have been 
first obtained, in part, within the local limits of the 
ordinary original jurisdiction of the said High Court, or 
if the defendant at the time of the commencement of the 
suit shall dwell or carry on business or personally work 
for gain, within such limits".
', 
', 	He further submitted that the very same principle is also 
reflected in Section 20 of the CPC, which also states that the 
court of the appropriate jurisdiction to decide a suit would be 
the court within whose jurisdiction the defendant or each of 
the defendants resided or carried out business "at the time of 
the commencement of the suit".
', 	He further submitted that this Court has in a plethora of 
cases, including Rameshwar and Ors. Vs. Jot Ram and 
Anr., (1976) 1 SCC 194 and ', Shri Kishan vs. Manoj Kumar', u", 
(1998) 2 SCC 710 held that the rights of parties are 
crystallized on the date of the institution of the suit, and 
subsequent events cannot alter these rights.  It is submitted 
that on the date of the institution of proceedings before the 
Bombay High Court, it did not have jurisdiction, and therefore 
the subsequent shifting of the appellant's registered office 
cannot operate to vest the Bombay High Court with the 
requisite jurisdiction.  It is therefore submitted that the 
Bombay High Court erred in assuming jurisdiction based on 
the subsequent change in the appellant's registered office.    
FORUM CONVENIENS:
", u"Mr. Nariman's contention that the situs of arbitration is 
determined by the parties keeping in mind various 
considerations including convenience of the prospective 
arbitrators.  These same considerations do not apply in 
deciding which Court would be convenient to supplement or 
compelement the arbitral proceedings.  It is submitted that the 
latter question is to be determined based on the convenience 
of only the parties i.e. the appellant and the respondent by 
reference to the cause of action the assets under dispute and 
the Registered/Principal offices of the parties.  Concluding his 
submission, he submitted that in view of the fact that the 
cause of action as well as the plant and machinery being the 
subject-matter of the dispute, is situated in Bellary, that is 
also where the Registered Offices of both the parties at the 
commencement of arbitral proceedings, the Court with 
jurisdiction to entertain a petition under ", Section 9', u" of the Act  
would undoubtedly be the Court at Bellary.
Mr. Sundaram submitted that the appellant's contention 
that Bombay High Court was not a convenient forum is totally 
fallacious for the following reasons apart from being taken for 
the first time in the oral submissions before this Court.
", (a) The arbitration hearings are being conducted at Bombay 
as per the Agreement. (Clause 17.2)
', (b) 8 full days of hearings had already been held before this 
appeal was heard. Further hearings of 4 days have also 
taken place on the 7th, 9th, 10th and 11th of August, 2006 
and further 5 days hearing for final and submissions are 
scheduled for 16th to 20th October, 2006.
', (c) The record comprises of several thousand pages of 
documents complied in over 12 voluminous box files all 
available in Mumbai.
', (d) The appellants Directors and Senior Officers are in 
Mumbai and have been attending the hearings to instruct 
their lawyers in Mumbai.
', (e)	Evidence has been recorded and closed by both parties in 
the arbitration.
', (f)	The parties had agreed on Mumbai as a convenient 
location for the conduct of the arbitration.
It is contended that the appellant is indulging in forum 
shopping to vest jurisdiction at Bellary, Karnataka with an 
ultimate objective of challenging the Award before the Civil 
Court at Bellary rather than the Bombay High Court.               
The appellant has relied upon two judgments, namely, 
', (i)	Rameshwar & Ors. Vs. Jot Ram & Anr. (1976) 1 SCC 
', 194', 
', (i)	Shri Kishan vs. Manojkumar (1998) 2 SCC 710 to 
urge that the Courts ought to consider the rights of 
parties which crystallized on the date of the institution 
of the suit and subsequent events cannot alter these 
rights.
', It is submitted that both the above two cases cited do not 
apply to the facts of the case and are clearly distinguishable.
', In the Rameshwar & Ors vs. Jot Ram & Anr',  (supra), 
this Court was called upon to consider whether subsequent 
event of the land owners death at the appellate stage unsettled 
the right acquired by the tenants or whether the Tribunal 
must uphold the rights which have crystallized on the date the 
applications were made. This was a mater under the Punjab 
Security of Land Tenures Act, 1953. The said judgment did not 
consider the subsequent events vis-`-vis territorial jurisdiction 
of the court. In fact, the said judgment can be only relied upon 
for the proposition that higher Courts pronounce rights of 
parties as the facts stood when the first Court was 
approached.
', In Shri Kishan vs. Manojkumar (supra) this Court was 
called upon to consider whether legal rights accrued to the 
plaintiff and stood crystallized under the law applicable to 
buildings at that time. This was a case under the Haryana 
Urban Control of Rent and ', Eviction Act', .
', This Court had the occasion to consider whether the suit 
filed before the expiry of ten years was in any matter, affected 
due to the fact that during the pendency of the suit the 10 
years exemption period ended. This court held that the legal 
rights had accrued and stood crystallized under the law 
applicable to buildings at the time of institution of the suit.
Once again, the said judgment did not consider 
jurisdiction of the territorial Court.
', The said two judgments are therefore, clearly 
distinguishable. It is submitted that the judgment of Bombay 
High Court in case of ', Fazlehussein vs. Yusufally',  (supra) 
clearly applies to the facts of the present case.
For the foregoing reasons, we are of the considered 
opinion that the Bombay High Court has jurisdiction to 
entertain ', Section 9',  application of the respondents herein.  We, 
therefore, request the Bombay High Court to proceed on 
merits to determine the matter in accordance with law.  For 
the reasons set out above, the civil appeal ought to be rejected 
by this Court and we do so accordingly.  No costs. 
In view of this order, the appellant is directed to file their 
affidavit in reply on merits in the pending ', Section 9',  
proceedings. 
', 27991
',  
    ', 






    ', 
    ', 
    ', 
       
    






']