[
', 
',  
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', DEP Home', 

', 
', About DEP', 

', 
', Programs', 

', 
', Contact', 

', 
', Site Map', 

', 
', Search', 
', 

', 
', 
', 
', 

', 
', 

', 
', 


', 
', u"
(function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
(i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
})(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

ga('create', 'UA-48002839-1', 'auto');  // Replace with your property ID.
ga('send', 'pageview');
", 
', 
', 
', 


', 
', 
', 

', 
', 
', 
	', 
	',  
	', \ufeff', 
', Resources for', 
', 
', Citizens', 
', Businesses', 
', Government', 
', Regulatory Plans', 
', 
', Public Notices, Outreach & Education Calendar', 
', Contact Us', 
', 
', 

',  ', 
', 
	', 
	', 
		', 
	', Unless indicated, documents on this Web site are Adobe Acrobat files, and require the free ',  reader software.', 
	', 
	',  ', 
		', 
		', 
', 

', 
 ', 

', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
 ', 
	', 
	',  
	', 
', 
', 
	', 
		', 
		', 
			', 
				', Land Acquisition Programs', 
				', Highlights', 
			', 
			', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', Glass Bottom Boat at Silver 
				Springs Attractions', 
				', 
				 ', 
				', 
				', 
			
			', Florida\u2019s Landmark Programs for 
			Conservation ', and Recreation Land Acquisition', 
			', James A. Farr, Ph.D. ', 
			Environmental Supervisor, Office of Environmental Services, FL 
			Division of State Lands ', 
			', O. Greg Brock, Ph.D. ', 
			Chief, Office of Environmental Services, Florida Division of State 
			Lands', 
			 ', 
			', 
			', Printable version of article
			',  ', 
				', This paper appeared in Volume 14 
				(Spring/Summer 2006) of ', Sustain', , a journal of 
				environmental and sustainability issues, published by The 
				Kentucky Institute for the Environment and Sustainable 
				Development at the University of Louisville.  It is from an 
				issue devoted to protection of natural areas in the southeastern 
				United States.  Other authors include Governor Mike 
				Huckabee of Arkansas and Senator Mitch McConnell from Kentucky.  ', 
				',  ', 
				', The State of Florida has had a long and successful history of 
				purchasing land to conserve its unique natural and cultural 
				resources.  Buoyed by phenomenal support from the general 
				public, Florida\u2019s Legislature, with the support of a succession 
				of both Democratic and Republican governors, has enacted a 
				series of well-funded programs over the past half century that 
				have resulted in the purchase and protection of over six million 
				acres of conservation lands.  When combined with 
				substantial federal conservation lands in Florida (including 
				large military bases) and holdings by local governments, Florida 
				has almost ten million acres that are managed for natural 
				resource protection and for resource-based recreation.  
				This is approximately 30 percent of our total land area.  
				Since 1990, we have had an annual land acquisition budget of 
				$300 million, far exceeding that of any other state or even that 
				of the Federal government for use in all fifty states.', 
			', The popular and political support for environmental protection in 
			Florida stems from three primary factors.  First, because of 
			its high rate of population growth \u2013 over 18 million residents with 
			a net population increase of 960 each day or 350,000 each year 
			\u2013natives and immigrants alike have witnessed the destruction of 
			natural areas that they once took for granted.  Second, 
			Florida\u2019s natural environment provides the foundation for its annual 
			$57-billion dollar tourism industry; destruction of our natural 
			environment would seriously harm our state\u2019s economy.  Finally, 
			environmental protection is beginning to be seen as important 
			economically in its own right both as a means of containing urban 
			sprawl, with its concomitant costs to local governments for 
			providing infrastructure away from population centers, and as an 
			amenity for new development.  Because our rapid development is 
			the cause of destruction of our natural areas, funding environmental 
			land acquisition for the past several decades has been predominantly 
			through collection of documentary stamp taxes paid on all real 
			estate transactions.  ', 
			', Land Acquisition 1963 \u2013 1990', 
			', Although we do not wish to dwell on the history 
			of environmental land acquisition in Florida, a brief overview is 
			instructive.  Our programmatic history illustrates the 
			evolution of the manner in which lands are selected for acquisition 
			and the type of funding sources we have used over the past several 
			decades.', 
			', Prior to 1963, Florida had no established 
			acquisition programs.  All acquisitions were the result of 
			either direct legislative line-item appropriations for specific 
			parcels or donations from private individuals or the federal 
			government.  The latter included several depression-era 
			Civilian Conservation Corps projects that are now our oldest State 
			Parks.  In addition, the Florida Division of Forestry ', 
			purchased over 300,000 acres that are now part of our system of 
			State ', Forests, and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
			Commission purchased over 120,000 acres that are now part of our 
			system of State Wildlife Management Areas.  ', 
			', Land Acquisition Trust Fund (LATF)', 
			', In 1963, the Florida Legislature began the 
			first of a series of land acquisition programs for conservation and 
			recreation purposes, all with dedicated funding sources.  The 
			Land Acquisition Trust Fund (LATF) was created to fund a 
			newly-created Outdoor Recreation and Conservation Program, designed 
			primarily to purchase land for parks and recreation areas.  The 
			source of funds was a five percent tax on outdoor clothing and 
			equipment, including bathing suits, which generated approximately 
			$1.5 million per year.  This was an attempt to fund the program 
			through a tax paid by people who would use the lands after they were 
			purchased.  Lands proposed for acquisition were selected by 
			staff of the Division of Recreation and Parks in the Florida 
			Department of Natural Resources (FDNR, now part of the Florida 
			Department of Environmental Protection), with a final list approved 
			by the Executive Director of FDNR.  ', 
			', The tax on outdoor clothing and equipment 
			proved to be very unpopular, referred to derogatorily as the 
			\u201cbathing suit tax.\u201d  In 1968, the Florida Legislature did away 
			with the tax and began funding LATF through the sale of recreation 
			bonds in the amount of $20 million.  These bonds were paid for 
			through funds collected from documentary stamp taxes paid on real 
			estate transactions.  Thus, the funding was switched from a tax 
			on potential users of conservation and recreation lands to taxes on 
			real estate transactions and financial documents (i.e., mortgages 
			and other loans, stocks, bonds, etc.).  The development that 
			was causing a loss of open space in Florida thus became the source 
			of funds for conserving that open space. ', 
			', Environmentally Endangered Lands Program 
			(EEL)', 
			',  ', 
			', In 1972, the Florida Legislature passed the 
			Land Conservation Act, which created the Environmentally Endangered 
			Lands (EEL) program.  Later that year Florida voters approved a 
			ballot referendum that authorized the sale of $200 million in EEL 
			bonds and another $40 million in recreation bonds.  Debt 
			service on the bonds for both programs continued to be paid from 
			proceeds of our documentary stamp tax on real estate transactions.  ', 
			', The EEL program was designed specifically to 
			protect environmentally unique and irreplaceable lands in the state 
			and was not designed to have outdoor resource-based recreation as 
			its primary goal.   Proposals for acquisition of specific 
			properties could come from any source and included individual 
			citizens, government agencies, non-profit organizations, and local 
			governments.  All projects were evaluated by staff from as many 
			as twelve environmental departments and divisions,  and, after 
			field inspections of sites that passed an initial screening and 
			public hearings to hear input from interested parties, department 
			and division heads prepared a ranked list of projects based on the 
			environmental resources.   Recommendations were made to the 
			Executive Director of the Department of Natural Resources, who made 
			the final administrative decisions as to which parcels of land to 
			purchase and how to appraise and negotiate the property, with final 
			purchases being approved by Florida\u2019s Governor and an independently 
			elected Cabinet.', [1]', 
			',  ', 
			', Conservation and Recreation Lands Program 
			(CARL)', 
			', Partly in response to a major scandal in which 
			the Executive Director of the Florida DNR was convicted of taking 
			kickbacks from one acquisition transaction, the Florida Legislature 
			replaced and expanded the EEL program in 1979 with the creation of 
			the Conservation and Recreation Lands (CARL) Program.  The CARL 
			Program and its authorizing statute (originally Chapter 253, Florida 
			Statutes, but now included in Chapter 259) called for a recurring 
			revenue stream (instead of bond revenues) and significantly altered 
			the administration and oversight of land acquisition activity.  
			From 1979 until 1987, the CARL Trust Fund received funds from an 
			excise tax on mineral extraction (primarily phosphate, but also oil, 
			gas and other solid minerals).  From 1987 through 1990, it also 
			received funds from documentary stamp taxes on real estate 
			transactions.  From 1979 through 1990, the CARL Program 
			protected approximately 181,000 acres of conservation and recreation 
			lands at a cost of nearly $356 million.  ', 
			', The significant administrative changes in the 
			Conservation and Recreation Lands Act persist in concept to this 
			day.  They included the creation of the Land Acquisition 
			Selection Committee (later renamed the Land Acquisition Advisory 
			Council, then the Land Acquisition and Management Advisory Council 
			when it added the role of overseeing management planning on 
			conservation lands), consisting of six environmental agency heads, 
			to select and rank projects, with the final lists presented directly 
			to our Governor and Cabinet.  The Committee consisted of the 
			Executive Directors of the Department of Natural Resources and the 
			Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, the Directors of the 
			Division of Historical Resources and the Division of Forestry, and 
			the Secretaries of the Department of Environmental Regulation and 
			the Department of Community Affairs, the latter being the state land 
			planning agency and containing the Division of Emergency Management', [2]', .  
			The Governor and Cabinet could accept or reject the entire list or 
			vote to remove individual projects, but they could not alter the 
			acquisition priorities recommended by the Committee. ', 
			', The other significant administrative changes 
			accompanying the CARL Program were the establishment of the Division 
			of State Lands within the DNR and its separate bureaus for mapping, 
			appraisal and negotiation of acquisitions.  Procedures for 
			appraisal, negotiation, and closing were spelled out in detail, with 
			sufficient checks and openness to ensure that there could be no 
			further illegal activities in the acquisition process.', 
			',  ', 
			', Save Our Coast (SOC)', 
			', There were two significant expansions to 
			Florida\u2019s ability to purchase conservation lands in 1981, both at 
			the urging of Governor Bob Graham.  The first was authorization 
			by the Florida Legislature to sell $275 million in bonds to purchase 
			lands along Florida\u2019s coast, and the second was establishment of the 
			Save Our Rivers program (see below).   The debt service on the 
			bonds for coastal land acquisition was paid from documentary stamp 
			taxes dedicated to the LATF program.  Although known as the 
			Save Our Coast (SOC) Program, the program for purchasing coastal 
			lands was implemented as part of the LATF Program, which had been 
			reduced to purchasing only small parcels and inholdings and 
			additions to State Parks after the creation of the CARL Program.  
			Save Our Coast was a response to the growing awareness that 
			Florida\u2019s beaches are an important recreational asset vital to our 
			tourist economy and the realization that coastal lands were being 
			lost to development at a rate disproportional to loss of other 
			lands.  The SOC program resulted in the purchase of more than 
			73 miles of coastline, a total of more than 73,000 acres, and 
			significantly increased the number of State Parks conserving our 
			valuable coastal resources and providing invaluable recreational 
			opportunities for residents and tourists.', 
			', Save our Rivers (SOR)', 
			',  ', The State of Florida is divided into 
			five Water Management Districts (WMD) based loosely on major river 
			drainage basins in the state.  The Districts are agencies of 
			the state, each overseen by an executive director who answers to a 
			governing board appointed by the Governor.  In 1981, the 
			Florida Legislature created the Water Management Lands Trust Fund, 
			also funded from documentary stamp tax revenues from real estate 
			transactions,  for the acquisition and restoration of water 
			resources.  The funds for this Save Our Rivers (SOR) Program 
			were distributed among the five Water Management Districts based 
			roughly on relative population within the districts:  30 
			percent to the South Florida WMD, 25 percent to Southwest WMD, 25 
			percent to St. Johns River WMD, 10 percent to Suwannee River WMD, 
			and 10 percent to Northwest Florida WMD.  Funding for the SOR 
			program has been significantly increased since 1990 (see below), 
			with the result that the five Districts have now purchased more than 
			1.7 million acres of land through this program.  Land 
			acquisition for the much-publicized restoration of the Florida 
			Everglades has been funded to a great extent from the SOR program of 
			the South Florida WMD.  Title to lands purchased with SOR funds 
			is held by the Districts, not the state.', 
			',  ', 
			', Preservation 2000 (P-2000) \u2013 1991 - 2000', 
			', In 1989, Governor Bob Martinez appointed a 
			Commission on the Future of Florida\u2019s Environment to examine threats 
			to Florida\u2019s environmental health and suggest potential solutions.  
			The Commission realized that Florida\u2019s then-current pace of 
			acquiring conservation lands was not occurring fast enough to keep 
			up with our rapid population increase and concomitant development 
			pressure.  There were already more projects on state and 
			regional acquisition priority lists than could be purchased under 
			existing funding levels, and there were many more areas of the state 
			with significant natural communities and listed species that had not 
			yet been proposed for acquisition.  Commission staff estimated 
			that there was an unmet acquisition need of more than $5 billion.  
			The Commission also recognized that land prices were escalating 
			faster than the rate of inflation and that it would be advantageous 
			to sell long-term bonds to fund land acquisition rather than to rely 
			on the year-to-year collection of documentary stamp taxes.  
			They recommended that the state begin a much more aggressive program 
			of land acquisition to protect more of the state\u2019s natural 
			environment before it was lost to development.', 
			', With the support of the Governor,  the 
			Florida Legislature responded in 1990 with passage of the landmark 
			Preservation 2000 Act.  This act anticipated the sale of $3 
			billion in bonds over a ten-year period, $300 million per year, from 
			1991 \u2013 2000.  The funds were to be given to the CARL program 
			(50 percent), the Save Our Rivers programs of the five water 
			management districts (30 percent), a newly-created Florida 
			Communities Trust aimed at helping local governments (10 percent), 
			2.9 percent each to the Division of Recreation and Parks, the 
			Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, and the Division of 
			Forestry to purchase inholdings and additions to State Parks, 
			Wildlife Management Areas and State Forests, respectively, and 
			finally 1.3 percent for recreational trails.  The CARL and SOR 
			programs continued to operate essentially as they had in the past, 
			only with a substantially larger budget.  The Rails to Trails 
			Program', [3]',  
			and the three Inholdings and Additions Programs established their 
			own internal agency procedures for selecting lands to be purchased.  
			The Florida Communities Trust, however, was an entirely new program 
			that needs a bit of explanation.', 
			', 
				 ', Florida Communities Trust (FCT)',  ', 
			', In 1985, the Florida Legislature enacted a 
			significant Growth Management Act that required all local 
			governments in Florida (counties and incorporated municipalities) to 
			prepare a detailed Comprehensive Plan, backed by extensive data and 
			analysis, with goals, objectives and policies to guide development, 
			provide infrastructure, protect natural resources, and provide 
			resource-based recreation for their citizens.  The statewide 
			oversight and approval of these comprehensive plans is a function of 
			the Florida Department of Community Affairs.', 
			', The Florida Communities Trust (FCT) was 
			actually established in 1989, but it did not receive funding until 
			passage of the Preservation 2000 Act.  The program is housed in 
			the Department of Community Affairs and was designed to assist local 
			governments in implementing the conservation, recreation and open 
			space, and coastal elements of their comprehensive plans.  
			Although the enabling legislation contemplates a broader function, 
			funds from P-2000 were restricted to acquisition of lands in 
			furtherance of outdoor recreation and conservation, and not other 
			activities related to local government assistance not directly 
			related to land acquisition.', 
			', FCT has a governing board consisting of the 
			Secretaries of the Department of Community Affairs and the 
			Department of Environmental Protection, plus four members appointed 
			by the Governor.  Applications for projects may come only from 
			local governments or non-profit organizations, and they are scored 
			using a numerical scoring system that evaluates not only the quality 
			of the natural resources on sites, but also how well the projects 
			satisfy requirements of the local governments\u2019 comprehensive plans.  
			Local governments are expected to provide matching funds for land 
			acquisition, although smaller governments are exempt from this 
			requirement.  Title to lands purchased through FCT is held by 
			the local government with a reverter clause in the deed that gives 
			title to the state if the local government does not manage the land 
			for the purpose for which it was acquired.', 
			', Florida Forever \u2013 2000 to the Present', 
			', Preservation 2000 was a phenomenal success.  
			Florida was able to preserve almost two million acres of land for 
			conservation and resource-based recreation through the many programs 
			it funded.  We made substantial headway in protecting the 
			state\u2019s natural heritage for the future, but it was clear that many 
			plant and animal species and several different natural vegetative 
			communities would still be lost if we did not devote more resources 
			to their protection.  There had already been talk among 
			environmental groups of a successor to Preservation 2000, but it 
			became clear in 1998 that the general public also supported 
			continued funding for land acquisition.  ', 
			', The 1968 Florida Constitution required that a 
			Constitution Revision Commission meet in 1978 and again in 1998 to 
			evaluate the Constitution and suggest revisions.  The 1998 
			Commission proposed several substantial changes to our Constitution 
			that would be put before the voters in November, 1998.  The one 
			that is relevant to this discussion was Amendment 5, which, among 
			other things, extended indefinitely the state\u2019s ability to sell 
			bonds to finance environmental land acquisition and created a more 
			difficult test for the disposal of land purchased for conservation 
			purposes, thereby attempting to ensure that what is bought for 
			conservation, stays in conservation.  Even though Florida was 
			becoming increasingly conservative and \u201cproperty rights\u201d was a 
			frequent topic of discussion, 72 percent of Florida\u2019s electorate 
			voted to approve Amendment 5.   It was clear that the 
			citizens of Florida were fully behind continued protection of our 
			dwindling natural resources.', 
			', The groundwork for a successor program began 
			under Governor Lawton Chiles, and in 1999, the Florida Legislature 
			passed the Florida Forever Act with the support of Governor Jeb 
			Bush.  Florida Forever resulted in a major revision and 
			replacement of the Save our Rivers and CARL Programs, which we now 
			call the State and Water Management District Florida Forever 
			Programs, respectively, while continuing funding to the Florida 
			Communities Trust, the three Inholdings and Additions programs, and 
			Greenways and Trails.  As did its predecessor, Florida Forever 
			authorizes the sale of up to $300 million in bonds for ten years, 
			but distributed differently than under Preservation 2000.  The 
			Florida Forever Program that replaced CARL receives 35 percent, 
			another 35 percent is divided among the five water management 
			district programs, Florida Communities Trust receives 22 percent, 
			each Inholdings and Additions program receives 1.5 percent, as does 
			Greenways and Trails.  The final 2 percent goes to the Florida 
			Recreational Development Assistance Program to fund development of 
			recreational facilities.', 
			', The Florida Forever Act made several changes.  
			There is a greater focus on urban and community parks, as 
			illustrated by the increase in funding to Florida Communities Trust.  
			There is a greater emphasis on protecting water resources and water 
			supply, and there is a new emphasis on purchasing conservation 
			easements on lands that do not necessarily need to be held in fee 
			title by the state.  Unlike Preservation 2000, Florida Forever 
			allows bond funds to be used for facilities development, for 
			ecological restoration and invasive exotic plant removal, and for 
			conducting species inventories and land management planning.  
			Finally, the Florida Forever Act provides for land management 
			funding through the CARL and SOR trust funds.', 
			', The Florida Forever Act set out several 
			specific goals to guide land acquisition throughout the state 
			through its several programs.  They include coordination and 
			completion of projects unfinished under previous programs, emphasis 
			on protecting Florida\u2019s biodiversity and protecting, restoring and 
			maintaining natural ecological functions.  It also calls for 
			ensuring that the state has sufficient quantities of groundwater.  
			There is continued recognition of the need to provide recreational 
			and educational opportunities for citizens and tourists, to protect 
			archaeological and historic sites and to provide forest land for 
			sustainable management.  Finally, there is a goal to provide 
			more urban open space.', 
			', Unlike earlier statutes governing environmental 
			land acquisition in Florida, the Florida Forever Act provides 34 
			performance measures under its eight goals.  Three deal with 
			acquisition coordination and completion, six are concerned with 
			protecting biodiversity, eleven cover ecological restoration and 
			ecosystem protection, three are concerned with quantities of water, 
			three with public recreation, two with archaeological and historical 
			resources, four with sustainable forestry, and two with urban open 
			space.  We are now required to identify priority areas for 
			satisfying these goals and measures and determine the number of 
			acres we have acquired that fulfill each measure.  There is 
			thus much more legislative guidance directing land acquisition.', 
			', The Florida Forever Act also replaced the old 
			Land Acquisition and Management Advisory Council (LAMAC) with a new 
			nine-member Acquisition and Restoration Council (ARC).  This 
			new Council has the heads of the five agencies that were on LAMAC 
			(minus the double representation of the Department of Environmental 
			Protection) plus four private citizens with an environmental 
			background appointed by the Governor.', 
			', Project Evaluation and Selection', 
			', We will now explain the process by which lands 
			are chosen for purchase under the Florida Forever Program and how 
			the lands are actually purchased.  This process has remained 
			basically unchanged since the inception of the CARL program in 1979, 
			although there have been a few substantive changes that we will 
			explain below.  We will also introduce our land management 
			planning process.', 
			', From 1979 \u2013 1990, the CARL program had one 
			selection cycle per year.  We increased this to twice per year 
			under Florida Forever.  Anyone may submit an application to ARC 
			to have a project considered for acquisition.  We have 
			routinely received applications from private landowners, real estate 
			agents and other representatives, state and federal agencies, local 
			governments, water management districts and conservation groups.  
			The application form and various support materials are available 
			online at
			', www.floridaforever.org', .  
			It is very important to note that our program depends on landowners 
			who are willing to have their property considered for purchase by 
			the state.  Prior to an application being submitted, all 
			landowners must be contacted by the applicant, and an owner\u2019s 
			property must be removed from a project boundary if the owner 
			requests it.', 
			', After the application deadlines of January 1 
			and July 1 of each year, all submittals are distributed to the nine 
			ARC members and to the Florida Natural Areas Inventory (FNAI).  
			FNAI is our state natural heritage program, part of a nationwide 
			Heritage Network that gathers and organizes information relating to 
			the biodiversity or each state (Stein et al., 2000).  FNAI 
			provides initial resource information from their databases for each 
			of the new projects.  Based on the application materials, FNAI 
			data, and, very importantly, a public hearing with input from 
			citizens, environmental groups, project sponsors and others, ARC 
			members perform an initial evaluation of each new project.  If 
			a minimum of five members vote in a public meeting to move the 
			project forward, it then moves to a more detailed evaluation.', 
			', The Florida Natural Areas inventory has 
			developed an iterative modeling tool called F-TRAC (Florida Forever 
			Tool for Efficient Resource Acquisition and Conservation) for 
			identifying projects that contribute the most toward satisfying our 
			conservation needs (Oetting et al., 2006).  The model 
			incorporates species, natural communities, high quality watersheds, 
			wetlands and sustainable forestry.  It is run every six months 
			in conjunction with each new application cycle and takes into 
			account land currently in public ownership, land in existing 
			projects, and lands proposed for acquisition.  Because it 
			evaluates unprotected land in relation to land that we already own, 
			the relative importance of unbought parcels may change as new land 
			is purchased and resources that were underrepresented in our 
			inventory become better protected through public ownership.', 
			', The Florida Natural Areas Inventory plays a 
			critical role in the next steps of project development.  After 
			a project passes the initial vote, FNAI staff recommend a project 
			Resource Planning Boundary that may vary from the boundaries 
			proposed in the initial application.  Property may be added to 
			the Resource Planning Boundary if there are tracts with significant 
			natural resources adjacent to the original proposal or if it makes 
			sense to include entire ownerships when only partial ownerships were 
			proposed.  They may also delete areas with known disturbances 
			or development or even recommend that only a part of an ownership be 
			pursued.', 
			', After the Resource Planning Boundaries are 
			determined, FNAI and agency staff perform site visits and write a 
			detailed evaluation of the project.  The project evaluations 
			contain descriptions of the vegetative communities, listed species 
			found on the property, descriptions of groundwater and surface water 
			resources, historical and archaeological resources, recreation 
			potential, a proposed management concept and suggested managing 
			agency, and recommendations regarding phasing and whether all or 
			part of the project would be appropriate for a conservation easement 
			or should be bought outright.  ', 
			', The completed project evaluations are 
			distributed to the ARC members, who then hold a second public 
			hearing on the projects before a second vote to approve the projects 
			to an acquisition list.  Those projects that receive at least 
			five affirmative votes are then voted onto either an \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d 
			list.  \u201cA\u201d list projects are those considered most important 
			for acquisition and may be pursued by the acquisition staff of the 
			DEP Division of State Lands.  \u201cB\u201d list projects are a lower 
			priority and may only be worked on if the state can pay no more than 
			50 percent of appraised value.  To be purchased, these projects 
			typically require matching funds from a local government or water 
			management district partner.  The cost to purchase all of the 
			projects on our acquisition lists has always substantially exceeded 
			our acquisition budget, so some sort of prioritization is essential.', 
			', The separation of projects into two lists, 
			basically high and low priority, is a new phenomenon under Florida 
			Forever.  Under the CARL program, from its inception through 
			the end of Preservation 2000, we ranked projects from highest to 
			lowest priority and developed acquisition work plans based on the 
			relative ranking of individual projects.  There was much more 
			certainty about which projects would be worked on in any given 
			fiscal year, but less of an opportunity to respond to changes in 
			landowner willingness to sell, imminent threat of development, and 
			other contingencies unforeseen at the time of ranking.  Each 
			method has its advantages.  With a formal ranking of the 
			projects from highest to lowest priority, the Council had more of a 
			direct input into acquisition priorities.  By lumping projects 
			into just two groups, within which all projects are equal, 
			acquisition priorities are determined to a much greater extent by 
			staff of the Division of State Lands.  Ranking reduces the 
			ability to exert political or interest-group influence on which 
			projects are pursued.  ', 
			', We should note that a project may range from a 
			tiny site of less than ten acres (e.g., to protect a historical site 
			like the Key West Customs House or a localized natural resource like 
			a Southeastern Bat maternity cave) to one of more than 200,000 acres 
			(e.g., the Tate\u2019s Hell Swamp in Franklin County).  They may 
			have one or a few landowners, as is the usual case, to more than 
			20,000 owners, as was the case in our Save Our Everglades project, 
			which included thousands of individual platted lots in the Southern 
			Golden Gate Estates.  Projects are not necessarily designed to 
			be completed in a single year, and some larger projects may take 
			more than two decades to complete (e.g., a large landscape project 
			in the Wekiva River basin in Orange, Seminole and Lake counties, or 
			the Save Our Everglades projects).  We are not always 
			successful in negotiating purchases of lands that we consider 
			important, but by maintaining essential parcels on our acquisition 
			list, we are able to respond if an owner\u2019s willingness to sell 
			changes or the ownership itself changes.  If a parcel within a 
			project is lost to development, we can reevaluate our priorities 
			within a project to determine if the project is still worth pursuing 
			or if priorities within the project need to be adjusted.  ', 
			', The final step in creating the acquisition 
			lists is approval of the final \u201cA\u201d and \u201cB\u201d groupings by our Governor 
			and Cabinet.  As with the CARL program, the Cabinet may approve 
			or reject the list or remove individual projects, but it may not 
			move projects from \u201cA\u201d to \u201cB\u201d or vice versa.  The lists are 
			submitted in the form of an Annual Report and Interim Report, both 
			of which include project summaries, purposes of acquisition, 
			management concepts, and other pertinent information.  By 
			approving the report, the Governor and Cabinet approve both the 
			groupings of projects into two lists as well as the rationale for 
			their inclusion as acquisition projects and the determination of how 
			they will be managed.', 
			', Steps to Acquisition', 
			',  ', The actual acquisition process occurs 
			in several discrete steps spelled out in detail in Chapter 259, 
			Florida Statutes, and by administrative rule.', 
			', After a project is approved by the Governor and 
			Cabinet, and if it is deemed to be sufficiently important for 
			acquisition to begin on at least one of the ownerships within the 
			project, it is given to our Bureau of Survey and Mapping for title 
			research and preparation of an appraisal map.  The appraisal 
			map is not a survey, but rather is based on plats, aerial 
			photointerpretaion and other information available from public 
			records.  It typically delineates wetland and upland acreages, 
			known easements on the property, and any other features that might 
			affect the value of the land.', 
			', The completed appraisal map is then given to 
			the Bureau of Appraisal.  Appraisals are conducted by 
			private-sector professionally-licensed property appraisers under 
			contract to the state.  For parcels whose value is estimated to 
			be $1,000,000 or less, one appraiser is used.  For parcels 
			valued above $1,000,000, two independent appraisers are used.  
			Their appraisals are then submitted to a third review appraiser, 
			also under contract to the state, who evaluates the work to ensure 
			compliance with statutory and rule requirements and to make a 
			professional judgment as to the suitability of comparable sales and 
			other factors.  The review appraiser then submits the finished 
			report to the Bureau.  If the higher of two appraisals exceeds 
			the lower by more than 20 percent, a third appraiser may be asked to 
			provide another opinion.  The higher of the two appraisals or 
			the higher of the two closest appraisals in the event of a third 
			appraisal becomes the maximum price that we are allowed to pay for 
			the property unless a majority of the Governor and Cabinet votes to 
			exceed that maximum.  Under Florida law, the results of the 
			appraisals and the establishment of the maximum price we can pay ', 
			are not revealed to the potential seller until two weeks prior to 
			the meeting of the Governor and Cabinet at which approval of the 
			purchase will be considered.   ', 
			', The appraisal results are given to an 
			acquisition agent in our Bureau of Land Acquisition.  The agent 
			then develops a negotiation strategy that must be approved by 
			management.  This strategy spells out the opening offer and the 
			maximum that we will offer.  The Governor and Cabinet typically 
			do not like to pay the full appraised value of property, so the 
			Bureau must balance the importance of the resources we wish to 
			protect with the insistence by our elected officials that we 
			negotiate a good deal for the State.  Each step in the 
			negotiation itself (initial offer, counteroffers and final agreed 
			upon price) is done in writing.  When the negotiations are 
			complete, the acquisition agent, with our legal staff, prepares a 
			contract for sale that must be agreed to by both parties.', 
			', We must emphasize that Florida\u2019s acquisition 
			programs depend on willing sellers.  Although we have the 
			statutory authority to use the power of eminent domain to acquire 
			conservation land under certain circumstances, we have only done so 
			very rarely, and then very reluctantly.  In the vast majority 
			of cases, if an owner is unwilling to sell his or her land, we will 
			not pursue it.', 
			', If the final negotiated purchase price exceeds 
			$250,000, the acquisition must be approved by the Governor and 
			Cabinet at one of their biweekly public meetings.  The Cabinet 
			and their staff receive agenda packages with details of the property 
			being acquired, assignment of a manager, negotiation steps, final 
			price, and the results of the appraisals.  It is at this time 
			that the maximum price the state could pay is revealed publicly.  ', 
			', When the Cabinet approves the purchase, the 
			acquisition package then goes to our closing agents.  It is at 
			this time that a final survey is done, any title problems are 
			resolved, and an environmental site assessment is performed to 
			identify and remove any potential hazardous substances on site.  
			The survey determines the final acreage, and the purchase price is 
			adjusted to reflect deviations from the acreage estimated from the 
			original appraisal maps.  Finally, the state pays the landowner 
			and takes title to the property.', 
			', The final step in the acquisition process is to 
			lease the property to the designated manager of the property.  
			This is done by the Bureau of Public Land Administration, which 
			oversees all property the state owns, including conservation lands, 
			submerged lands, and any other land owned by the state for other 
			purposes (schools, prisons, state office buildings, etc.).  ', 
			', Management of State Conservation Lands', 
			', Every parcel of state-owned conservation and 
			resource-based recreation land must have a manager assigned to it.  
			We have four primary land managers within the state system.  
			The Division of Recreation and Parks within DEP manages our state 
			park system, which includes state parks, state recreation areas and 
			state preserves.  The Office of Coastal and Aquatic Managed 
			Areas, also in DEP, manages aquatic preserves, our three National 
			Estuarine Research Reserves and the Florida Keys Marine Sanctuary.  
			The Division of Forestry, housed in the Department of Agriculture 
			and Consumer Services, manages the state forest system.  
			Finally, the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (formerly the 
			Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, but now merged with the former 
			Marine Fisheries Commission) manages Wildlife Management Areas, with 
			an emphasis on hunting, and Wildlife and Environmental Areas, with 
			an emphasis on protecting listed species.  The Division of 
			Historical Resources within the Department of State also manages a 
			few historical and archaeological sites around the state, and DEP\u2019s 
			Office of Greenways and Trails manages the Cross Florida Greenway 
			State Recreation and Conservation Area.', 
			', The purpose for which a project is purchased is 
			identified as part of the project evaluation process, and the 
			manager is confirmed by the Governor and Cabinet when the 
			acquisition is approved.  After receiving a lease from DEP\u2019s 
			Bureau of Public Land Administration, the land manager has one year 
			to develop a management plan for a new management unit or an 
			amendment to the management plan of an existing unit.  The 
			management planning process involves holding public meetings in 
			which citizens living near the park, forest, preserve, reserve or 
			wildlife area are given the opportunity to participate in deciding 
			how a parcel will be managed.  ', 
			', The management plans themselves identify in 
			much greater detail the natural resources on the site, outline the 
			management needs of the site and how those needs will be addressed, 
			provide site plans for any proposed development (cabins, camping 
			areas, ranger residences, trails, roads, bathhouses, etc.), and 
			provide an estimate of the amount of funding and personnel that will 
			be needed for optimal management of the site.  Upon completion, 
			the management plan must be submitted to and approved by the 
			Acquisition and Restoration Council, who ensure that the sensitive 
			natural resources on the property will be protected.  ', 
			', Land Management Review Teams', 
			', As part of an ongoing process to provide 
			accountability to the public for proper management of state-owned 
			conservation lands, the 1997 Florida Legislature added a new process 
			to inspect parks, forests, wildlife areas and buffer preserves to 
			ensure that they are being managed appropriately in accordance with 
			their acquisition purposes and management plans.  The 
			Department of Environmental Protection is responsible for 
			establishing regional Land Management Review Teams to inspect and 
			evaluate management of units of our state-owned conservation lands 
			inventory.  The review teams consist of an individual from the 
			county or local community in which the parcel or project is located 
			and who is selected by the county commission in the county which is 
			most affected by the acquisition; individuals from the Division of 
			Recreation and Parks, the Division of Forestry, and the Fish and 
			Wildlife Conservation Commission; an individual from DEP\u2019s district 
			regulatory office in which the parcel is located; a private land 
			manager, a member of the local soil and water conservation district 
			board of supervisors; and a member of a conservation organization. ', 
			', The review teams are required to visit and 
			report on all of our management units greater than 1000 acres in 
			size every five years and may also inspect smaller units as time 
			permits.  We currently have approximately 485 State Parks, 
			State Forests, Wildlife Management Areas, State Buffer Preserves, 
			and other environmental and cultural management units in Florida 
			(including several jointly owned with local government, water 
			management district, and other partners), of which 148 are greater 
			than 1000 acres in size.  All 148 of these have been inspected 
			at least once, and we are in the process of visiting all of them a 
			second time.  We have also inspected approximately 40 of the 
			smaller units.', 
			', The Department of Environmental Protection 
			compiles the results of the site inspections into an annual report 
			for the Governor and Cabinet.  Prior to being presented to the 
			Cabinet in October, DEP staff also makes a presentation at a public 
			meeting of the Acquisition and Restoration Council.  Members of 
			the general public have an opportunity to comment on Land Management 
			Review Team findings at both the ARC and Cabinet meetings.', 
			', Management Funding', 
			', Funding for land management prior to 
			Preservation 2000 was historically from a hodge-podge of  
			individual trust funds (State Park Trust Fund, Division of 
			Forestry\u2019s Incidental Trust Fund, State Game Trust Fund, etc.), 
			unpredictable general revenue appropriations to individual managing 
			agencies, and various other state and federal funds.  We were 
			often criticized, perhaps fairly, for purchasing more land than we 
			were able to manage.  Certainly management needs exceeded the 
			available funding.  It was also difficult for managing agencies 
			to begin to take care of newly-acquired lands and open them to the 
			public because they could not get management money until the next 
			time the legislature was in session.', 
			', Management funding became more timely and more 
			stable under Preservation 2000 with a system that continues today.  
			First, with the majority of acquisition funds now coming either from 
			the sale of bonds or directly from general revenue, the old CARL 
			Trust Fund began to be used as a source of funding for land 
			management.  Bond funds cannot be used for land management.  
			The old mixture of trust funds and other assorted funds still 
			exists, but there is now a more reliable recurring source of revenue 
			for land management.', 
			', The management funds are distributed among 
			managing agencies in accordance with the number of acres they 
			manage, weighted by the intensity of management required by some 
			sites.  In particular, the Division of Recreation and Parks 
			receives three times the amount per acre for managing state parks, 
			which typically require more infrastructure and facilities 
			development, more personnel, and more active supervision of 
			visitors.  At the beginning of each fiscal year (July 1 of each 
			year), 90 percent of available long-term management funds are 
			distributed among the managing agencies for ongoing management of 
			their lands.  Ten percent is held in reserve for managing 
			historical resources and for any special management needs.  Any 
			funds from this reserve that are not spent by April 1 of each year 
			are distributed among all managing agencies based on the weighted 
			formula used at the beginning of the fiscal year.', 
			', We have also instituted a procedure for 
			allocating interim management funds to land management agencies as 
			soon as they execute their lease from the Division of State Lands.  
			These interim management funds allow the managing agencies to begin 
			taking care of their lands as soon as they receive them in their 
			system rather than having to wait until the lands are included in 
			the next round of long-term management fund allocation.  
			Immediate needs typically include fencing and various activities 
			necessary to prepare a site to accept visitors.  ', 
			', There are still insufficient management funds 
			for ideal management of all of our conservation lands, as outlined 
			in the long-term plans for site development and management in 
			individual land management plans, but we have significantly improved 
			management funding since enacting the Preservation 2000 Act.  
			Although funding shortages are still the primary reason that our 
			parks, forests, wildlife areas and buffer preserves are not managed 
			to their full potential, all of our conservation lands are being 
			adequately managed in conformance with the reasons for which we 
			bought them, and all are open to the public.  ', 
			',  Local Governments ', 
			', We could not tell a complete story of 
			successful land acquisition programs in Florida without mentioning 
			the extraordinary role of local governments.  Since 1972, 29 of 
			Florida\u2019s 67 counties, eight municipalities, and the Lake County 
			Water Authority have developed their own local land acquisition 
			programs.  Most of these have resulted from local referendums 
			in which citizens have voted overwhelmingly to increase their sales 
			taxes or property taxes to fund land acquisition and management.  
			Much of the incentive for these programs has come from the ability 
			of local governments to receive matching funds from state programs 
			like CARL, Florida Forever the Florida Communities Trust and Water 
			Management Districts to assist in purchasing lands of local and 
			regional significance.  Local governments in Florida have 
			raised more than $2 billion and have been responsible for the 
			purchase of approximately 375,000 acres of conservation and 
			resource-based recreation lands, an astonishing feat in this era of 
			tax reform and private property rights.  ', 
			',  ', 
			', Conclusions', 
			',  ', Florida continues to lead the nation in 
			purchasing property to protect natural resources and provide 
			resource-based recreation.  Our programs have been successful 
			for many reasons, the most important of which is the enthusiastic 
			support, even demands, of our citizenry, who do not have to live in 
			Florida for very long to notice treasured areas being lost to 
			development at the alarming rate of 165,000 acres each year (an 
			average of  453 acres daily) and who are keenly aware of the 
			need to preserve our natural areas to provide a basis for our 
			tourism-based economy.  Our political leaders have recognized 
			the popularity of natural resource protection and have responded 
			with a series of land conservation programs spanning more than four 
			decades.  Funding for our programs has been based primarily on 
			activities that have resulted in the need for conservation:  
			documentary stamp taxes on real estate transactions, which are 
			becoming increasingly numerous as development continues, and 
			severance taxes on environmentally damaging mineral extraction 
			activities.  ', 
			', Our programs invite public participation 
			throughout the process, beginning with the ability of anyone to 
			submit an application, through the project evaluation and selection 
			process, the development of management plans, and oversight of how 
			the lands are managed.  There are public conservation and 
			resource-based recreation lands in each of our 67 counties, with 
			large tracts accessible to all citizens within relatively short 
			distances.  Our citizens have clearly been rewarded for their 
			support and participation with a myriad of conservation lands 
			available for their enjoyment.', 
			', Finally, and most importantly, we have been 
			successful in preserving for posterity a substantial portion of our 
			natural heritage.  Our natural lands contain hundreds of listed 
			species, our most imperiled vegetative communities, significant 
			cultural and historical sites, watersheds and water recharge areas.  
			Our lands contain rivers, lakes, springs, beaches, central Florida 
			scrub, north Florida sandhills, significant wetlands, and an 
			incredible variety of upland habitats.  They provide us a 
			myriad of recreational opportunities, including nature study, 
			camping, hiking, swimming, canoeing, hunting and fishing.  Our 
			159-unit system of State Parks has twice been awarded the National 
			Recreation and Parks Association\u2019s Gold Medal Award, honoring 
			Florida as the Nation\u2019s \u201cBest State Park Service.\u201d  Through our 
			environmental land acquisition efforts we are able to embark on  
			restoration of large natural areas like the Florida Everglades and 
			north Florida longleaf pine habitat.  Our citizens, their 
			descendents, and our visitors have all gained a heightened quality 
			of life. ', 
			', Jim Farr began working with Florida\u2019s land 
			acquisition programs in 1989 as Department of Community Affairs 
			staff person to the CARL program.  In 1990 he was hired as the 
			first staff person for the newly-created Florida Communities Trust, 
			where he served for two years, and he continued as staff person to 
			the CARL program until 2000.  In 2002 he was hired as 
			Conservation Easement Coordinator in the Office of Environmental 
			Service.   Dr. Farr can be contacted at jim.farr@dep.state.fl.us. ', 
			', Greg Brock began work as a biologist with 
			the Division of Recreation and Parks in 1981 and became the lead 
			staff person for the CARL Program in 1986.  He was made Chief 
			of the Office of Environmental Services in 1996.  Dr. Brock can 
			be contacted at greg.brock@dep.state.fl.us', 
			', References', 
			', Oetting, Jonathan B., Knight, Amy L.,  and 
			Knight, Gary R.  (2006).  Systematic reserve design as a 
			dynamic process:  F-TRAC and the Florida Forever program.  ', 
			Biological Conservation',  128, pp. 37-46.', 
			', Stein, Bruce A., Kutner, Lynn S. and Adams, 
			Jonathan S.  (Eds.)  (2000).  Precious Heritage:  The 
			Status of Biodiversity in the United States.  Oxford University 
			Press, New York.', 
			',  ', 
			', Web Resources', 
						', Florida 
						Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, 
						Florida Forest Service (formerly Division of Forestry) 
			', http://www.fl-dof.com/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Community Affairs, Florida Communities Trust 
			', 
			http://www.floridacommunitydevelopment.org/fct/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Division of Recreation and Parks 
			', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/parks/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Division of State Lands 
			', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/lands/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Office of Coastal and Aquatic Managed 
			Areas  ', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/coastal/default.htm', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Office of Greenways and Trails 
			', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/gwt/', 
			', Florida Fish and 
			Wildlife Conservation Commission 
			', 
			http://www.floridaconservation.org/', 
			', Florida Natural Areas 
			Inventory  ', http://www.fnai.org/', 
			', Florida Statutes (for 
			Chapter 259 pertaining to acquisition of conservation lands) 
			', 
			http://www.leg.state.fl.us/Statutes/', 
			', Northwest Florida 
			Water Management District  ', 
			http://www.nwfwmd.state.fl.us/', 
			', St. Johns River Water 
			Management District  ', 
			http://sjr.state.fl.us/', 
			', South Florida Water 
			Management District  ', 
			http://www.sfwmd.gov/', 
			', Southwest Florida 
			Water Management District  ', 
			http://www.swfwmd.state.fl.us/', 
			', Suwannee River Water 
			Management District  ', 
			http://www.srwmd.state.fl.us/', 
				', 
				 ', 
				', 
					', 
					', 
					', 
					', [1]',  
					Prior to 1999, Florida had six independently elected Cabinet 
					members:  Secretary of State, Commissioner of 
					Education, Commissioner of Agriculture, Insurance 
					Commissioner, Treasurer, and Attorney General.  
					Constitutional revisions approved by voters in 1998 reduced 
					the number to three:  Attorney General, Commissioner of 
					Agriculture and Chief Financial Officer, the latter 
					combining the duties of the former Treasurer and Insurance 
					Commissioner.  The Secretary of State and Commissioner 
					of Education are now appointed by the Governor.', 
					', 
				', 
					', 
					', 
					', 
					', [2]',  In 
					1993, the Department of Environmental Regulation and the 
					Department of Natural Resources were combined to form the 
					Department of Environmental Protection (DEP).  The DEP 
					had two representatives on the Land Acquisition and 
					Management Advisory Council, one representing the old DNR 
					land acquisition/land management side of the agency, the 
					other representing the water resource and permitting side of 
					the agency.', 
				', 
					', 
					', 
					', 
					', [3]',  
					Rails to Trails later evolved into our current Greenways and 
					Trails Program', 
			', 
				', 
				', 
							
				\ufeff

', 


   	', State Lands Home', 
   	', Florida Communities Trust', 
   	', Parks Directory', 

 ', Florida Forever', 
 
', 
    ', Acquisition and Restoration Council', 
    ', ARC', 
	', ARC Calendar', 
	', 
	 ', Florida Forever',  Project Descriptions', 
',     
	', Sell Land to State', 
	', Land Acquisition Process', 
	', Buy Land from State', 
', 
	
	', Disposition of State Lands and Facilities Annual Report', 				
	', Use of State-Owned Lands', 
	', Stewardship', 
	', Survey & Mapping', 
	', Appraisal', 
	', FL-SOLARIS', 
', 


', Quick Links', 
', 
	', About Us', 	
	', Contacts', 
	', FAQ', 
	', u"Florida's Lands and Water- Brief Facts", 
	', History of State Lands', 
	', u"History of Florida's Acquisition Programs", 
	', Links & Resources', 
	', Public Notices', 

	', Rulemaking
	
', 

', 
	', 
	', 
	', Email Updates',  ', 
	', Sign up for information and updates related to the Division of State 
					Lands, currently focusing on and featuring surplus state 
					lands. 
	', 
	', 
		', 
		', *Email Address', 
		', 
	', 
	', 
		', 
	', 
', 	
				', 
			', 
		', 
	', 
', 
', Last updated:
', April 06, 2015', 
', 
', 
	', 
	', 	
	', 
	', 

', 


', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
Copyright', 
', 
',  
2012 State of Florida', 
', Disclaimer', 

', Exit Disclaimer', 
', 
Privacy Statement', 
', 
	 ', 
	', 
', 
   3900 Commonwealth Boulevard M.S. 100  
   Tallahassee, Florida 32399   
   850-245-2555 (phone) / 850-245-2572 (fax)', 
   ', Contact Us ', 
', 
', 	
	', 

', 


', DEP Home',  | ', About DEP', 
 | ', Contact Us',  | ', Search',  | 
', Site Map',  '][
', 
',  
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', DEP Home', 

', 
', About DEP', 

', 
', Programs', 

', 
', Contact', 

', 
', Site Map', 

', 
', Search', 
', 

', 
', 
', 
', 

', 
', 

', 
', 


', 
', u"
(function(i,s,o,g,r,a,m){i['GoogleAnalyticsObject']=r;i[r]=i[r]||function(){
(i[r].q=i[r].q||[]).push(arguments)},i[r].l=1*new Date();a=s.createElement(o),
m=s.getElementsByTagName(o)[0];a.async=1;a.src=g;m.parentNode.insertBefore(a,m)
})(window,document,'script','//www.google-analytics.com/analytics.js','ga');

ga('create', 'UA-48002839-1', 'auto');  // Replace with your property ID.
ga('send', 'pageview');
", 
', 
', 
', 


', 
', 
', 

', 
', 
', 
	', 
	',  
	', \ufeff', 
', Resources for', 
', 
', Citizens', 
', Businesses', 
', Government', 
', Regulatory Plans', 
', 
', Public Notices, Outreach & Education Calendar', 
', Contact Us', 
', 
', 

',  ', 
', 
	', 
	', 
		', 
	', Unless indicated, documents on this Web site are Adobe Acrobat files, and require the free ',  reader software.', 
	', 
	',  ', 
		', 
		', 
', 

', 
 ', 

', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
 ', 
	', 
	',  
	', 
', 
', 
	', 
		', 
		', 
			', 
				', Land Acquisition Programs', 
				', Highlights', 
			', 
			', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', 
				', Glass Bottom Boat at Silver 
				Springs Attractions', 
				', 
				 ', 
				', 
				', 
			
			', Florida\u2019s Landmark Programs for 
			Conservation ', and Recreation Land Acquisition', 
			', James A. Farr, Ph.D. ', 
			Environmental Supervisor, Office of Environmental Services, FL 
			Division of State Lands ', 
			', O. Greg Brock, Ph.D. ', 
			Chief, Office of Environmental Services, Florida Division of State 
			Lands', 
			 ', 
			', 
			', Printable version of article
			',  ', 
				', This paper appeared in Volume 14 
				(Spring/Summer 2006) of ', Sustain', , a journal of 
				environmental and sustainability issues, published by The 
				Kentucky Institute for the Environment and Sustainable 
				Development at the University of Louisville.  It is from an 
				issue devoted to protection of natural areas in the southeastern 
				United States.  Other authors include Governor Mike 
				Huckabee of Arkansas and Senator Mitch McConnell from Kentucky.  ', 
				',  ', 
				', The State of Florida has had a long and successful history of 
				purchasing land to conserve its unique natural and cultural 
				resources.  Buoyed by phenomenal support from the general 
				public, Florida\u2019s Legislature, with the support of a succession 
				of both Democratic and Republican governors, has enacted a 
				series of well-funded programs over the past half century that 
				have resulted in the purchase and protection of over six million 
				acres of conservation lands.  When combined with 
				substantial federal conservation lands in Florida (including 
				large military bases) and holdings by local governments, Florida 
				has almost ten million acres that are managed for natural 
				resource protection and for resource-based recreation.  
				This is approximately 30 percent of our total land area.  
				Since 1990, we have had an annual land acquisition budget of 
				$300 million, far exceeding that of any other state or even that 
				of the Federal government for use in all fifty states.', 
			', The popular and political support for environmental protection in 
			Florida stems from three primary factors.  First, because of 
			its high rate of population growth \u2013 over 18 million residents with 
			a net population increase of 960 each day or 350,000 each year 
			\u2013natives and immigrants alike have witnessed the destruction of 
			natural areas that they once took for granted.  Second, 
			Florida\u2019s natural environment provides the foundation for its annual 
			$57-billion dollar tourism industry; destruction of our natural 
			environment would seriously harm our state\u2019s economy.  Finally, 
			environmental protection is beginning to be seen as important 
			economically in its own right both as a means of containing urban 
			sprawl, with its concomitant costs to local governments for 
			providing infrastructure away from population centers, and as an 
			amenity for new development.  Because our rapid development is 
			the cause of destruction of our natural areas, funding environmental 
			land acquisition for the past several decades has been predominantly 
			through collection of documentary stamp taxes paid on all real 
			estate transactions.  ', 
			', Land Acquisition 1963 \u2013 1990', 
			', Although we do not wish to dwell on the history 
			of environmental land acquisition in Florida, a brief overview is 
			instructive.  Our programmatic history illustrates the 
			evolution of the manner in which lands are selected for acquisition 
			and the type of funding sources we have used over the past several 
			decades.', 
			', Prior to 1963, Florida had no established 
			acquisition programs.  All acquisitions were the result of 
			either direct legislative line-item appropriations for specific 
			parcels or donations from private individuals or the federal 
			government.  The latter included several depression-era 
			Civilian Conservation Corps projects that are now our oldest State 
			Parks.  In addition, the Florida Division of Forestry ', 
			purchased over 300,000 acres that are now part of our system of 
			State ', Forests, and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation 
			Commission purchased over 120,000 acres that are now part of our 
			system of State Wildlife Management Areas.  ', 
			', Land Acquisition Trust Fund (LATF)', 
			', In 1963, the Florida Legislature began the 
			first of a series of land acquisition programs for conservation and 
			recreation purposes, all with dedicated funding sources.  The 
			Land Acquisition Trust Fund (LATF) was created to fund a 
			newly-created Outdoor Recreation and Conservation Program, designed 
			primarily to purchase land for parks and recreation areas.  The 
			source of funds was a five percent tax on outdoor clothing and 
			equipment, including bathing suits, which generated approximately 
			$1.5 million per year.  This was an attempt to fund the program 
			through a tax paid by people who would use the lands after they were 
			purchased.  Lands proposed for acquisition were selected by 
			staff of the Division of Recreation and Parks in the Florida 
			Department of Natural Resources (FDNR, now part of the Florida 
			Department of Environmental Protection), with a final list approved 
			by the Executive Director of FDNR.  ', 
			', The tax on outdoor clothing and equipment 
			proved to be very unpopular, referred to derogatorily as the 
			\u201cbathing suit tax.\u201d  In 1968, the Florida Legislature did away 
			with the tax and began funding LATF through the sale of recreation 
			bonds in the amount of $20 million.  These bonds were paid for 
			through funds collected from documentary stamp taxes paid on real 
			estate transactions.  Thus, the funding was switched from a tax 
			on potential users of conservation and recreation lands to taxes on 
			real estate transactions and financial documents (i.e., mortgages 
			and other loans, stocks, bonds, etc.).  The development that 
			was causing a loss of open space in Florida thus became the source 
			of funds for conserving that open space. ', 
			', Environmentally Endangered Lands Program 
			(EEL)', 
			',  ', 
			', In 1972, the Florida Legislature passed the 
			Land Conservation Act, which created the Environmentally Endangered 
			Lands (EEL) program.  Later that year Florida voters approved a 
			ballot referendum that authorized the sale of $200 million in EEL 
			bonds and another $40 million in recreation bonds.  Debt 
			service on the bonds for both programs continued to be paid from 
			proceeds of our documentary stamp tax on real estate transactions.  ', 
			', The EEL program was designed specifically to 
			protect environmentally unique and irreplaceable lands in the state 
			and was not designed to have outdoor resource-based recreation as 
			its primary goal.   Proposals for acquisition of specific 
			properties could come from any source and included individual 
			citizens, government agencies, non-profit organizations, and local 
			governments.  All projects were evaluated by staff from as many 
			as twelve environmental departments and divisions,  and, after 
			field inspections of sites that passed an initial screening and 
			public hearings to hear input from interested parties, department 
			and division heads prepared a ranked list of projects based on the 
			environmental resources.   Recommendations were made to the 
			Executive Director of the Department of Natural Resources, who made 
			the final administrative decisions as to which parcels of land to 
			purchase and how to appraise and negotiate the property, with final 
			purchases being approved by Florida\u2019s Governor and an independently 
			elected Cabinet.', [1]', 
			',  ', 
			', Conservation and Recreation Lands Program 
			(CARL)', 
			', Partly in response to a major scandal in which 
			the Executive Director of the Florida DNR was convicted of taking 
			kickbacks from one acquisition transaction, the Florida Legislature 
			replaced and expanded the EEL program in 1979 with the creation of 
			the Conservation and Recreation Lands (CARL) Program.  The CARL 
			Program and its authorizing statute (originally Chapter 253, Florida 
			Statutes, but now included in Chapter 259) called for a recurring 
			revenue stream (instead of bond revenues) and significantly altered 
			the administration and oversight of land acquisition activity.  
			From 1979 until 1987, the CARL Trust Fund received funds from an 
			excise tax on mineral extraction (primarily phosphate, but also oil, 
			gas and other solid minerals).  From 1987 through 1990, it also 
			received funds from documentary stamp taxes on real estate 
			transactions.  From 1979 through 1990, the CARL Program 
			protected approximately 181,000 acres of conservation and recreation 
			lands at a cost of nearly $356 million.  ', 
			', The significant administrative changes in the 
			Conservation and Recreation Lands Act persist in concept to this 
			day.  They included the creation of the Land Acquisition 
			Selection Committee (later renamed the Land Acquisition Advisory 
			Council, then the Land Acquisition and Management Advisory Council 
			when it added the role of overseeing management planning on 
			conservation lands), consisting of six environmental agency heads, 
			to select and rank projects, with the final lists presented directly 
			to our Governor and Cabinet.  The Committee consisted of the 
			Executive Directors of the Department of Natural Resources and the 
			Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, the Directors of the 
			Division of Historical Resources and the Division of Forestry, and 
			the Secretaries of the Department of Environmental Regulation and 
			the Department of Community Affairs, the latter being the state land 
			planning agency and containing the Division of Emergency Management', [2]', .  
			The Governor and Cabinet could accept or reject the entire list or 
			vote to remove individual projects, but they could not alter the 
			acquisition priorities recommended by the Committee. ', 
			', The other significant administrative changes 
			accompanying the CARL Program were the establishment of the Division 
			of State Lands within the DNR and its separate bureaus for mapping, 
			appraisal and negotiation of acquisitions.  Procedures for 
			appraisal, negotiation, and closing were spelled out in detail, with 
			sufficient checks and openness to ensure that there could be no 
			further illegal activities in the acquisition process.', 
			',  ', 
			', Save Our Coast (SOC)', 
			', There were two significant expansions to 
			Florida\u2019s ability to purchase conservation lands in 1981, both at 
			the urging of Governor Bob Graham.  The first was authorization 
			by the Florida Legislature to sell $275 million in bonds to purchase 
			lands along Florida\u2019s coast, and the second was establishment of the 
			Save Our Rivers program (see below).   The debt service on the 
			bonds for coastal land acquisition was paid from documentary stamp 
			taxes dedicated to the LATF program.  Although known as the 
			Save Our Coast (SOC) Program, the program for purchasing coastal 
			lands was implemented as part of the LATF Program, which had been 
			reduced to purchasing only small parcels and inholdings and 
			additions to State Parks after the creation of the CARL Program.  
			Save Our Coast was a response to the growing awareness that 
			Florida\u2019s beaches are an important recreational asset vital to our 
			tourist economy and the realization that coastal lands were being 
			lost to development at a rate disproportional to loss of other 
			lands.  The SOC program resulted in the purchase of more than 
			73 miles of coastline, a total of more than 73,000 acres, and 
			significantly increased the number of State Parks conserving our 
			valuable coastal resources and providing invaluable recreational 
			opportunities for residents and tourists.', 
			', Save our Rivers (SOR)', 
			',  ', The State of Florida is divided into 
			five Water Management Districts (WMD) based loosely on major river 
			drainage basins in the state.  The Districts are agencies of 
			the state, each overseen by an executive director who answers to a 
			governing board appointed by the Governor.  In 1981, the 
			Florida Legislature created the Water Management Lands Trust Fund, 
			also funded from documentary stamp tax revenues from real estate 
			transactions,  for the acquisition and restoration of water 
			resources.  The funds for this Save Our Rivers (SOR) Program 
			were distributed among the five Water Management Districts based 
			roughly on relative population within the districts:  30 
			percent to the South Florida WMD, 25 percent to Southwest WMD, 25 
			percent to St. Johns River WMD, 10 percent to Suwannee River WMD, 
			and 10 percent to Northwest Florida WMD.  Funding for the SOR 
			program has been significantly increased since 1990 (see below), 
			with the result that the five Districts have now purchased more than 
			1.7 million acres of land through this program.  Land 
			acquisition for the much-publicized restoration of the Florida 
			Everglades has been funded to a great extent from the SOR program of 
			the South Florida WMD.  Title to lands purchased with SOR funds 
			is held by the Districts, not the state.', 
			',  ', 
			', Preservation 2000 (P-2000) \u2013 1991 - 2000', 
			', In 1989, Governor Bob Martinez appointed a 
			Commission on the Future of Florida\u2019s Environment to examine threats 
			to Florida\u2019s environmental health and suggest potential solutions.  
			The Commission realized that Florida\u2019s then-current pace of 
			acquiring conservation lands was not occurring fast enough to keep 
			up with our rapid population increase and concomitant development 
			pressure.  There were already more projects on state and 
			regional acquisition priority lists than could be purchased under 
			existing funding levels, and there were many more areas of the state 
			with significant natural communities and listed species that had not 
			yet been proposed for acquisition.  Commission staff estimated 
			that there was an unmet acquisition need of more than $5 billion.  
			The Commission also recognized that land prices were escalating 
			faster than the rate of inflation and that it would be advantageous 
			to sell long-term bonds to fund land acquisition rather than to rely 
			on the year-to-year collection of documentary stamp taxes.  
			They recommended that the state begin a much more aggressive program 
			of land acquisition to protect more of the state\u2019s natural 
			environment before it was lost to development.', 
			', With the support of the Governor,  the 
			Florida Legislature responded in 1990 with passage of the landmark 
			Preservation 2000 Act.  This act anticipated the sale of $3 
			billion in bonds over a ten-year period, $300 million per year, from 
			1991 \u2013 2000.  The funds were to be given to the CARL program 
			(50 percent), the Save Our Rivers programs of the five water 
			management districts (30 percent), a newly-created Florida 
			Communities Trust aimed at helping local governments (10 percent), 
			2.9 percent each to the Division of Recreation and Parks, the 
			Florida Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, and the Division of 
			Forestry to purchase inholdings and additions to State Parks, 
			Wildlife Management Areas and State Forests, respectively, and 
			finally 1.3 percent for recreational trails.  The CARL and SOR 
			programs continued to operate essentially as they had in the past, 
			only with a substantially larger budget.  The Rails to Trails 
			Program', [3]',  
			and the three Inholdings and Additions Programs established their 
			own internal agency procedures for selecting lands to be purchased.  
			The Florida Communities Trust, however, was an entirely new program 
			that needs a bit of explanation.', 
			', 
				 ', Florida Communities Trust (FCT)',  ', 
			', In 1985, the Florida Legislature enacted a 
			significant Growth Management Act that required all local 
			governments in Florida (counties and incorporated municipalities) to 
			prepare a detailed Comprehensive Plan, backed by extensive data and 
			analysis, with goals, objectives and policies to guide development, 
			provide infrastructure, protect natural resources, and provide 
			resource-based recreation for their citizens.  The statewide 
			oversight and approval of these comprehensive plans is a function of 
			the Florida Department of Community Affairs.', 
			', The Florida Communities Trust (FCT) was 
			actually established in 1989, but it did not receive funding until 
			passage of the Preservation 2000 Act.  The program is housed in 
			the Department of Community Affairs and was designed to assist local 
			governments in implementing the conservation, recreation and open 
			space, and coastal elements of their comprehensive plans.  
			Although the enabling legislation contemplates a broader function, 
			funds from P-2000 were restricted to acquisition of lands in 
			furtherance of outdoor recreation and conservation, and not other 
			activities related to local government assistance not directly 
			related to land acquisition.', 
			', FCT has a governing board consisting of the 
			Secretaries of the Department of Community Affairs and the 
			Department of Environmental Protection, plus four members appointed 
			by the Governor.  Applications for projects may come only from 
			local governments or non-profit organizations, and they are scored 
			using a numerical scoring system that evaluates not only the quality 
			of the natural resources on sites, but also how well the projects 
			satisfy requirements of the local governments\u2019 comprehensive plans.  
			Local governments are expected to provide matching funds for land 
			acquisition, although smaller governments are exempt from this 
			requirement.  Title to lands purchased through FCT is held by 
			the local government with a reverter clause in the deed that gives 
			title to the state if the local government does not manage the land 
			for the purpose for which it was acquired.', 
			', Florida Forever \u2013 2000 to the Present', 
			', Preservation 2000 was a phenomenal success.  
			Florida was able to preserve almost two million acres of land for 
			conservation and resource-based recreation through the many programs 
			it funded.  We made substantial headway in protecting the 
			state\u2019s natural heritage for the future, but it was clear that many 
			plant and animal species and several different natural vegetative 
			communities would still be lost if we did not devote more resources 
			to their protection.  There had already been talk among 
			environmental groups of a successor to Preservation 2000, but it 
			became clear in 1998 that the general public also supported 
			continued funding for land acquisition.  ', 
			', The 1968 Florida Constitution required that a 
			Constitution Revision Commission meet in 1978 and again in 1998 to 
			evaluate the Constitution and suggest revisions.  The 1998 
			Commission proposed several substantial changes to our Constitution 
			that would be put before the voters in November, 1998.  The one 
			that is relevant to this discussion was Amendment 5, which, among 
			other things, extended indefinitely the state\u2019s ability to sell 
			bonds to finance environmental land acquisition and created a more 
			difficult test for the disposal of land purchased for conservation 
			purposes, thereby attempting to ensure that what is bought for 
			conservation, stays in conservation.  Even though Florida was 
			becoming increasingly conservative and \u201cproperty rights\u201d was a 
			frequent topic of discussion, 72 percent of Florida\u2019s electorate 
			voted to approve Amendment 5.   It was clear that the 
			citizens of Florida were fully behind continued protection of our 
			dwindling natural resources.', 
			', The groundwork for a successor program began 
			under Governor Lawton Chiles, and in 1999, the Florida Legislature 
			passed the Florida Forever Act with the support of Governor Jeb 
			Bush.  Florida Forever resulted in a major revision and 
			replacement of the Save our Rivers and CARL Programs, which we now 
			call the State and Water Management District Florida Forever 
			Programs, respectively, while continuing funding to the Florida 
			Communities Trust, the three Inholdings and Additions programs, and 
			Greenways and Trails.  As did its predecessor, Florida Forever 
			authorizes the sale of up to $300 million in bonds for ten years, 
			but distributed differently than under Preservation 2000.  The 
			Florida Forever Program that replaced CARL receives 35 percent, 
			another 35 percent is divided among the five water management 
			district programs, Florida Communities Trust receives 22 percent, 
			each Inholdings and Additions program receives 1.5 percent, as does 
			Greenways and Trails.  The final 2 percent goes to the Florida 
			Recreational Development Assistance Program to fund development of 
			recreational facilities.', 
			', The Florida Forever Act made several changes.  
			There is a greater focus on urban and community parks, as 
			illustrated by the increase in funding to Florida Communities Trust.  
			There is a greater emphasis on protecting water resources and water 
			supply, and there is a new emphasis on purchasing conservation 
			easements on lands that do not necessarily need to be held in fee 
			title by the state.  Unlike Preservation 2000, Florida Forever 
			allows bond funds to be used for facilities development, for 
			ecological restoration and invasive exotic plant removal, and for 
			conducting species inventories and land management planning.  
			Finally, the Florida Forever Act provides for land management 
			funding through the CARL and SOR trust funds.', 
			', The Florida Forever Act set out several 
			specific goals to guide land acquisition throughout the state 
			through its several programs.  They include coordination and 
			completion of projects unfinished under previous programs, emphasis 
			on protecting Florida\u2019s biodiversity and protecting, restoring and 
			maintaining natural ecological functions.  It also calls for 
			ensuring that the state has sufficient quantities of groundwater.  
			There is continued recognition of the need to provide recreational 
			and educational opportunities for citizens and tourists, to protect 
			archaeological and historic sites and to provide forest land for 
			sustainable management.  Finally, there is a goal to provide 
			more urban open space.', 
			', Unlike earlier statutes governing environmental 
			land acquisition in Florida, the Florida Forever Act provides 34 
			performance measures under its eight goals.  Three deal with 
			acquisition coordination and completion, six are concerned with 
			protecting biodiversity, eleven cover ecological restoration and 
			ecosystem protection, three are concerned with quantities of water, 
			three with public recreation, two with archaeological and historical 
			resources, four with sustainable forestry, and two with urban open 
			space.  We are now required to identify priority areas for 
			satisfying these goals and measures and determine the number of 
			acres we have acquired that fulfill each measure.  There is 
			thus much more legislative guidance directing land acquisition.', 
			', The Florida Forever Act also replaced the old 
			Land Acquisition and Management Advisory Council (LAMAC) with a new 
			nine-member Acquisition and Restoration Council (ARC).  This 
			new Council has the heads of the five agencies that were on LAMAC 
			(minus the double representation of the Department of Environmental 
			Protection) plus four private citizens with an environmental 
			background appointed by the Governor.', 
			', Project Evaluation and Selection', 
			', We will now explain the process by which lands 
			are chosen for purchase under the Florida Forever Program and how 
			the lands are actually purchased.  This process has remained 
			basically unchanged since the inception of the CARL program in 1979, 
			although there have been a few substantive changes that we will 
			explain below.  We will also introduce our land management 
			planning process.', 
			', From 1979 \u2013 1990, the CARL program had one 
			selection cycle per year.  We increased this to twice per year 
			under Florida Forever.  Anyone may submit an application to ARC 
			to have a project considered for acquisition.  We have 
			routinely received applications from private landowners, real estate 
			agents and other representatives, state and federal agencies, local 
			governments, water management districts and conservation groups.  
			The application form and various support materials are available 
			online at
			', www.floridaforever.org', .  
			It is very important to note that our program depends on landowners 
			who are willing to have their property considered for purchase by 
			the state.  Prior to an application being submitted, all 
			landowners must be contacted by the applicant, and an owner\u2019s 
			property must be removed from a project boundary if the owner 
			requests it.', 
			', After the application deadlines of January 1 
			and July 1 of each year, all submittals are distributed to the nine 
			ARC members and to the Florida Natural Areas Inventory (FNAI).  
			FNAI is our state natural heritage program, part of a nationwide 
			Heritage Network that gathers and organizes information relating to 
			the biodiversity or each state (Stein et al., 2000).  FNAI 
			provides initial resource information from their databases for each 
			of the new projects.  Based on the application materials, FNAI 
			data, and, very importantly, a public hearing with input from 
			citizens, environmental groups, project sponsors and others, ARC 
			members perform an initial evaluation of each new project.  If 
			a minimum of five members vote in a public meeting to move the 
			project forward, it then moves to a more detailed evaluation.', 
			', The Florida Natural Areas inventory has 
			developed an iterative modeling tool called F-TRAC (Florida Forever 
			Tool for Efficient Resource Acquisition and Conservation) for 
			identifying projects that contribute the most toward satisfying our 
			conservation needs (Oetting et al., 2006).  The model 
			incorporates species, natural communities, high quality watersheds, 
			wetlands and sustainable forestry.  It is run every six months 
			in conjunction with each new application cycle and takes into 
			account land currently in public ownership, land in existing 
			projects, and lands proposed for acquisition.  Because it 
			evaluates unprotected land in relation to land that we already own, 
			the relative importance of unbought parcels may change as new land 
			is purchased and resources that were underrepresented in our 
			inventory become better protected through public ownership.', 
			', The Florida Natural Areas Inventory plays a 
			critical role in the next steps of project development.  After 
			a project passes the initial vote, FNAI staff recommend a project 
			Resource Planning Boundary that may vary from the boundaries 
			proposed in the initial application.  Property may be added to 
			the Resource Planning Boundary if there are tracts with significant 
			natural resources adjacent to the original proposal or if it makes 
			sense to include entire ownerships when only partial ownerships were 
			proposed.  They may also delete areas with known disturbances 
			or development or even recommend that only a part of an ownership be 
			pursued.', 
			', After the Resource Planning Boundaries are 
			determined, FNAI and agency staff perform site visits and write a 
			detailed evaluation of the project.  The project evaluations 
			contain descriptions of the vegetative communities, listed species 
			found on the property, descriptions of groundwater and surface water 
			resources, historical and archaeological resources, recreation 
			potential, a proposed management concept and suggested managing 
			agency, and recommendations regarding phasing and whether all or 
			part of the project would be appropriate for a conservation easement 
			or should be bought outright.  ', 
			', The completed project evaluations are 
			distributed to the ARC members, who then hold a second public 
			hearing on the projects before a second vote to approve the projects 
			to an acquisition list.  Those projects that receive at least 
			five affirmative votes are then voted onto either an \u201cA\u201d or \u201cB\u201d 
			list.  \u201cA\u201d list projects are those considered most important 
			for acquisition and may be pursued by the acquisition staff of the 
			DEP Division of State Lands.  \u201cB\u201d list projects are a lower 
			priority and may only be worked on if the state can pay no more than 
			50 percent of appraised value.  To be purchased, these projects 
			typically require matching funds from a local government or water 
			management district partner.  The cost to purchase all of the 
			projects on our acquisition lists has always substantially exceeded 
			our acquisition budget, so some sort of prioritization is essential.', 
			', The separation of projects into two lists, 
			basically high and low priority, is a new phenomenon under Florida 
			Forever.  Under the CARL program, from its inception through 
			the end of Preservation 2000, we ranked projects from highest to 
			lowest priority and developed acquisition work plans based on the 
			relative ranking of individual projects.  There was much more 
			certainty about which projects would be worked on in any given 
			fiscal year, but less of an opportunity to respond to changes in 
			landowner willingness to sell, imminent threat of development, and 
			other contingencies unforeseen at the time of ranking.  Each 
			method has its advantages.  With a formal ranking of the 
			projects from highest to lowest priority, the Council had more of a 
			direct input into acquisition priorities.  By lumping projects 
			into just two groups, within which all projects are equal, 
			acquisition priorities are determined to a much greater extent by 
			staff of the Division of State Lands.  Ranking reduces the 
			ability to exert political or interest-group influence on which 
			projects are pursued.  ', 
			', We should note that a project may range from a 
			tiny site of less than ten acres (e.g., to protect a historical site 
			like the Key West Customs House or a localized natural resource like 
			a Southeastern Bat maternity cave) to one of more than 200,000 acres 
			(e.g., the Tate\u2019s Hell Swamp in Franklin County).  They may 
			have one or a few landowners, as is the usual case, to more than 
			20,000 owners, as was the case in our Save Our Everglades project, 
			which included thousands of individual platted lots in the Southern 
			Golden Gate Estates.  Projects are not necessarily designed to 
			be completed in a single year, and some larger projects may take 
			more than two decades to complete (e.g., a large landscape project 
			in the Wekiva River basin in Orange, Seminole and Lake counties, or 
			the Save Our Everglades projects).  We are not always 
			successful in negotiating purchases of lands that we consider 
			important, but by maintaining essential parcels on our acquisition 
			list, we are able to respond if an owner\u2019s willingness to sell 
			changes or the ownership itself changes.  If a parcel within a 
			project is lost to development, we can reevaluate our priorities 
			within a project to determine if the project is still worth pursuing 
			or if priorities within the project need to be adjusted.  ', 
			', The final step in creating the acquisition 
			lists is approval of the final \u201cA\u201d and \u201cB\u201d groupings by our Governor 
			and Cabinet.  As with the CARL program, the Cabinet may approve 
			or reject the list or remove individual projects, but it may not 
			move projects from \u201cA\u201d to \u201cB\u201d or vice versa.  The lists are 
			submitted in the form of an Annual Report and Interim Report, both 
			of which include project summaries, purposes of acquisition, 
			management concepts, and other pertinent information.  By 
			approving the report, the Governor and Cabinet approve both the 
			groupings of projects into two lists as well as the rationale for 
			their inclusion as acquisition projects and the determination of how 
			they will be managed.', 
			', Steps to Acquisition', 
			',  ', The actual acquisition process occurs 
			in several discrete steps spelled out in detail in Chapter 259, 
			Florida Statutes, and by administrative rule.', 
			', After a project is approved by the Governor and 
			Cabinet, and if it is deemed to be sufficiently important for 
			acquisition to begin on at least one of the ownerships within the 
			project, it is given to our Bureau of Survey and Mapping for title 
			research and preparation of an appraisal map.  The appraisal 
			map is not a survey, but rather is based on plats, aerial 
			photointerpretaion and other information available from public 
			records.  It typically delineates wetland and upland acreages, 
			known easements on the property, and any other features that might 
			affect the value of the land.', 
			', The completed appraisal map is then given to 
			the Bureau of Appraisal.  Appraisals are conducted by 
			private-sector professionally-licensed property appraisers under 
			contract to the state.  For parcels whose value is estimated to 
			be $1,000,000 or less, one appraiser is used.  For parcels 
			valued above $1,000,000, two independent appraisers are used.  
			Their appraisals are then submitted to a third review appraiser, 
			also under contract to the state, who evaluates the work to ensure 
			compliance with statutory and rule requirements and to make a 
			professional judgment as to the suitability of comparable sales and 
			other factors.  The review appraiser then submits the finished 
			report to the Bureau.  If the higher of two appraisals exceeds 
			the lower by more than 20 percent, a third appraiser may be asked to 
			provide another opinion.  The higher of the two appraisals or 
			the higher of the two closest appraisals in the event of a third 
			appraisal becomes the maximum price that we are allowed to pay for 
			the property unless a majority of the Governor and Cabinet votes to 
			exceed that maximum.  Under Florida law, the results of the 
			appraisals and the establishment of the maximum price we can pay ', 
			are not revealed to the potential seller until two weeks prior to 
			the meeting of the Governor and Cabinet at which approval of the 
			purchase will be considered.   ', 
			', The appraisal results are given to an 
			acquisition agent in our Bureau of Land Acquisition.  The agent 
			then develops a negotiation strategy that must be approved by 
			management.  This strategy spells out the opening offer and the 
			maximum that we will offer.  The Governor and Cabinet typically 
			do not like to pay the full appraised value of property, so the 
			Bureau must balance the importance of the resources we wish to 
			protect with the insistence by our elected officials that we 
			negotiate a good deal for the State.  Each step in the 
			negotiation itself (initial offer, counteroffers and final agreed 
			upon price) is done in writing.  When the negotiations are 
			complete, the acquisition agent, with our legal staff, prepares a 
			contract for sale that must be agreed to by both parties.', 
			', We must emphasize that Florida\u2019s acquisition 
			programs depend on willing sellers.  Although we have the 
			statutory authority to use the power of eminent domain to acquire 
			conservation land under certain circumstances, we have only done so 
			very rarely, and then very reluctantly.  In the vast majority 
			of cases, if an owner is unwilling to sell his or her land, we will 
			not pursue it.', 
			', If the final negotiated purchase price exceeds 
			$250,000, the acquisition must be approved by the Governor and 
			Cabinet at one of their biweekly public meetings.  The Cabinet 
			and their staff receive agenda packages with details of the property 
			being acquired, assignment of a manager, negotiation steps, final 
			price, and the results of the appraisals.  It is at this time 
			that the maximum price the state could pay is revealed publicly.  ', 
			', When the Cabinet approves the purchase, the 
			acquisition package then goes to our closing agents.  It is at 
			this time that a final survey is done, any title problems are 
			resolved, and an environmental site assessment is performed to 
			identify and remove any potential hazardous substances on site.  
			The survey determines the final acreage, and the purchase price is 
			adjusted to reflect deviations from the acreage estimated from the 
			original appraisal maps.  Finally, the state pays the landowner 
			and takes title to the property.', 
			', The final step in the acquisition process is to 
			lease the property to the designated manager of the property.  
			This is done by the Bureau of Public Land Administration, which 
			oversees all property the state owns, including conservation lands, 
			submerged lands, and any other land owned by the state for other 
			purposes (schools, prisons, state office buildings, etc.).  ', 
			', Management of State Conservation Lands', 
			', Every parcel of state-owned conservation and 
			resource-based recreation land must have a manager assigned to it.  
			We have four primary land managers within the state system.  
			The Division of Recreation and Parks within DEP manages our state 
			park system, which includes state parks, state recreation areas and 
			state preserves.  The Office of Coastal and Aquatic Managed 
			Areas, also in DEP, manages aquatic preserves, our three National 
			Estuarine Research Reserves and the Florida Keys Marine Sanctuary.  
			The Division of Forestry, housed in the Department of Agriculture 
			and Consumer Services, manages the state forest system.  
			Finally, the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (formerly the 
			Game and Fresh Water Fish Commission, but now merged with the former 
			Marine Fisheries Commission) manages Wildlife Management Areas, with 
			an emphasis on hunting, and Wildlife and Environmental Areas, with 
			an emphasis on protecting listed species.  The Division of 
			Historical Resources within the Department of State also manages a 
			few historical and archaeological sites around the state, and DEP\u2019s 
			Office of Greenways and Trails manages the Cross Florida Greenway 
			State Recreation and Conservation Area.', 
			', The purpose for which a project is purchased is 
			identified as part of the project evaluation process, and the 
			manager is confirmed by the Governor and Cabinet when the 
			acquisition is approved.  After receiving a lease from DEP\u2019s 
			Bureau of Public Land Administration, the land manager has one year 
			to develop a management plan for a new management unit or an 
			amendment to the management plan of an existing unit.  The 
			management planning process involves holding public meetings in 
			which citizens living near the park, forest, preserve, reserve or 
			wildlife area are given the opportunity to participate in deciding 
			how a parcel will be managed.  ', 
			', The management plans themselves identify in 
			much greater detail the natural resources on the site, outline the 
			management needs of the site and how those needs will be addressed, 
			provide site plans for any proposed development (cabins, camping 
			areas, ranger residences, trails, roads, bathhouses, etc.), and 
			provide an estimate of the amount of funding and personnel that will 
			be needed for optimal management of the site.  Upon completion, 
			the management plan must be submitted to and approved by the 
			Acquisition and Restoration Council, who ensure that the sensitive 
			natural resources on the property will be protected.  ', 
			', Land Management Review Teams', 
			', As part of an ongoing process to provide 
			accountability to the public for proper management of state-owned 
			conservation lands, the 1997 Florida Legislature added a new process 
			to inspect parks, forests, wildlife areas and buffer preserves to 
			ensure that they are being managed appropriately in accordance with 
			their acquisition purposes and management plans.  The 
			Department of Environmental Protection is responsible for 
			establishing regional Land Management Review Teams to inspect and 
			evaluate management of units of our state-owned conservation lands 
			inventory.  The review teams consist of an individual from the 
			county or local community in which the parcel or project is located 
			and who is selected by the county commission in the county which is 
			most affected by the acquisition; individuals from the Division of 
			Recreation and Parks, the Division of Forestry, and the Fish and 
			Wildlife Conservation Commission; an individual from DEP\u2019s district 
			regulatory office in which the parcel is located; a private land 
			manager, a member of the local soil and water conservation district 
			board of supervisors; and a member of a conservation organization. ', 
			', The review teams are required to visit and 
			report on all of our management units greater than 1000 acres in 
			size every five years and may also inspect smaller units as time 
			permits.  We currently have approximately 485 State Parks, 
			State Forests, Wildlife Management Areas, State Buffer Preserves, 
			and other environmental and cultural management units in Florida 
			(including several jointly owned with local government, water 
			management district, and other partners), of which 148 are greater 
			than 1000 acres in size.  All 148 of these have been inspected 
			at least once, and we are in the process of visiting all of them a 
			second time.  We have also inspected approximately 40 of the 
			smaller units.', 
			', The Department of Environmental Protection 
			compiles the results of the site inspections into an annual report 
			for the Governor and Cabinet.  Prior to being presented to the 
			Cabinet in October, DEP staff also makes a presentation at a public 
			meeting of the Acquisition and Restoration Council.  Members of 
			the general public have an opportunity to comment on Land Management 
			Review Team findings at both the ARC and Cabinet meetings.', 
			', Management Funding', 
			', Funding for land management prior to 
			Preservation 2000 was historically from a hodge-podge of  
			individual trust funds (State Park Trust Fund, Division of 
			Forestry\u2019s Incidental Trust Fund, State Game Trust Fund, etc.), 
			unpredictable general revenue appropriations to individual managing 
			agencies, and various other state and federal funds.  We were 
			often criticized, perhaps fairly, for purchasing more land than we 
			were able to manage.  Certainly management needs exceeded the 
			available funding.  It was also difficult for managing agencies 
			to begin to take care of newly-acquired lands and open them to the 
			public because they could not get management money until the next 
			time the legislature was in session.', 
			', Management funding became more timely and more 
			stable under Preservation 2000 with a system that continues today.  
			First, with the majority of acquisition funds now coming either from 
			the sale of bonds or directly from general revenue, the old CARL 
			Trust Fund began to be used as a source of funding for land 
			management.  Bond funds cannot be used for land management.  
			The old mixture of trust funds and other assorted funds still 
			exists, but there is now a more reliable recurring source of revenue 
			for land management.', 
			', The management funds are distributed among 
			managing agencies in accordance with the number of acres they 
			manage, weighted by the intensity of management required by some 
			sites.  In particular, the Division of Recreation and Parks 
			receives three times the amount per acre for managing state parks, 
			which typically require more infrastructure and facilities 
			development, more personnel, and more active supervision of 
			visitors.  At the beginning of each fiscal year (July 1 of each 
			year), 90 percent of available long-term management funds are 
			distributed among the managing agencies for ongoing management of 
			their lands.  Ten percent is held in reserve for managing 
			historical resources and for any special management needs.  Any 
			funds from this reserve that are not spent by April 1 of each year 
			are distributed among all managing agencies based on the weighted 
			formula used at the beginning of the fiscal year.', 
			', We have also instituted a procedure for 
			allocating interim management funds to land management agencies as 
			soon as they execute their lease from the Division of State Lands.  
			These interim management funds allow the managing agencies to begin 
			taking care of their lands as soon as they receive them in their 
			system rather than having to wait until the lands are included in 
			the next round of long-term management fund allocation.  
			Immediate needs typically include fencing and various activities 
			necessary to prepare a site to accept visitors.  ', 
			', There are still insufficient management funds 
			for ideal management of all of our conservation lands, as outlined 
			in the long-term plans for site development and management in 
			individual land management plans, but we have significantly improved 
			management funding since enacting the Preservation 2000 Act.  
			Although funding shortages are still the primary reason that our 
			parks, forests, wildlife areas and buffer preserves are not managed 
			to their full potential, all of our conservation lands are being 
			adequately managed in conformance with the reasons for which we 
			bought them, and all are open to the public.  ', 
			',  Local Governments ', 
			', We could not tell a complete story of 
			successful land acquisition programs in Florida without mentioning 
			the extraordinary role of local governments.  Since 1972, 29 of 
			Florida\u2019s 67 counties, eight municipalities, and the Lake County 
			Water Authority have developed their own local land acquisition 
			programs.  Most of these have resulted from local referendums 
			in which citizens have voted overwhelmingly to increase their sales 
			taxes or property taxes to fund land acquisition and management.  
			Much of the incentive for these programs has come from the ability 
			of local governments to receive matching funds from state programs 
			like CARL, Florida Forever the Florida Communities Trust and Water 
			Management Districts to assist in purchasing lands of local and 
			regional significance.  Local governments in Florida have 
			raised more than $2 billion and have been responsible for the 
			purchase of approximately 375,000 acres of conservation and 
			resource-based recreation lands, an astonishing feat in this era of 
			tax reform and private property rights.  ', 
			',  ', 
			', Conclusions', 
			',  ', Florida continues to lead the nation in 
			purchasing property to protect natural resources and provide 
			resource-based recreation.  Our programs have been successful 
			for many reasons, the most important of which is the enthusiastic 
			support, even demands, of our citizenry, who do not have to live in 
			Florida for very long to notice treasured areas being lost to 
			development at the alarming rate of 165,000 acres each year (an 
			average of  453 acres daily) and who are keenly aware of the 
			need to preserve our natural areas to provide a basis for our 
			tourism-based economy.  Our political leaders have recognized 
			the popularity of natural resource protection and have responded 
			with a series of land conservation programs spanning more than four 
			decades.  Funding for our programs has been based primarily on 
			activities that have resulted in the need for conservation:  
			documentary stamp taxes on real estate transactions, which are 
			becoming increasingly numerous as development continues, and 
			severance taxes on environmentally damaging mineral extraction 
			activities.  ', 
			', Our programs invite public participation 
			throughout the process, beginning with the ability of anyone to 
			submit an application, through the project evaluation and selection 
			process, the development of management plans, and oversight of how 
			the lands are managed.  There are public conservation and 
			resource-based recreation lands in each of our 67 counties, with 
			large tracts accessible to all citizens within relatively short 
			distances.  Our citizens have clearly been rewarded for their 
			support and participation with a myriad of conservation lands 
			available for their enjoyment.', 
			', Finally, and most importantly, we have been 
			successful in preserving for posterity a substantial portion of our 
			natural heritage.  Our natural lands contain hundreds of listed 
			species, our most imperiled vegetative communities, significant 
			cultural and historical sites, watersheds and water recharge areas.  
			Our lands contain rivers, lakes, springs, beaches, central Florida 
			scrub, north Florida sandhills, significant wetlands, and an 
			incredible variety of upland habitats.  They provide us a 
			myriad of recreational opportunities, including nature study, 
			camping, hiking, swimming, canoeing, hunting and fishing.  Our 
			159-unit system of State Parks has twice been awarded the National 
			Recreation and Parks Association\u2019s Gold Medal Award, honoring 
			Florida as the Nation\u2019s \u201cBest State Park Service.\u201d  Through our 
			environmental land acquisition efforts we are able to embark on  
			restoration of large natural areas like the Florida Everglades and 
			north Florida longleaf pine habitat.  Our citizens, their 
			descendents, and our visitors have all gained a heightened quality 
			of life. ', 
			', Jim Farr began working with Florida\u2019s land 
			acquisition programs in 1989 as Department of Community Affairs 
			staff person to the CARL program.  In 1990 he was hired as the 
			first staff person for the newly-created Florida Communities Trust, 
			where he served for two years, and he continued as staff person to 
			the CARL program until 2000.  In 2002 he was hired as 
			Conservation Easement Coordinator in the Office of Environmental 
			Service.   Dr. Farr can be contacted at jim.farr@dep.state.fl.us. ', 
			', Greg Brock began work as a biologist with 
			the Division of Recreation and Parks in 1981 and became the lead 
			staff person for the CARL Program in 1986.  He was made Chief 
			of the Office of Environmental Services in 1996.  Dr. Brock can 
			be contacted at greg.brock@dep.state.fl.us', 
			', References', 
			', Oetting, Jonathan B., Knight, Amy L.,  and 
			Knight, Gary R.  (2006).  Systematic reserve design as a 
			dynamic process:  F-TRAC and the Florida Forever program.  ', 
			Biological Conservation',  128, pp. 37-46.', 
			', Stein, Bruce A., Kutner, Lynn S. and Adams, 
			Jonathan S.  (Eds.)  (2000).  Precious Heritage:  The 
			Status of Biodiversity in the United States.  Oxford University 
			Press, New York.', 
			',  ', 
			', Web Resources', 
						', Florida 
						Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, 
						Florida Forest Service (formerly Division of Forestry) 
			', http://www.fl-dof.com/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Community Affairs, Florida Communities Trust 
			', 
			http://www.floridacommunitydevelopment.org/fct/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Division of Recreation and Parks 
			', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/parks/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Division of State Lands 
			', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/lands/', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Office of Coastal and Aquatic Managed 
			Areas  ', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/coastal/default.htm', 
			', Florida Department of 
			Environmental Protection, Office of Greenways and Trails 
			', 
			http://www.dep.state.fl.us/gwt/', 
			', Florida Fish and 
			Wildlife Conservation Commission 
			', 
			http://www.floridaconservation.org/', 
			', Florida Natural Areas 
			Inventory  ', http://www.fnai.org/', 
			', Florida Statutes (for 
			Chapter 259 pertaining to acquisition of conservation lands) 
			', 
			http://www.leg.state.fl.us/Statutes/', 
			', Northwest Florida 
			Water Management District  ', 
			http://www.nwfwmd.state.fl.us/', 
			', St. Johns River Water 
			Management District  ', 
			http://sjr.state.fl.us/', 
			', South Florida Water 
			Management District  ', 
			http://www.sfwmd.gov/', 
			', Southwest Florida 
			Water Management District  ', 
			http://www.swfwmd.state.fl.us/', 
			', Suwannee River Water 
			Management District  ', 
			http://www.srwmd.state.fl.us/', 
				', 
				 ', 
				', 
					', 
					', 
					', 
					', [1]',  
					Prior to 1999, Florida had six independently elected Cabinet 
					members:  Secretary of State, Commissioner of 
					Education, Commissioner of Agriculture, Insurance 
					Commissioner, Treasurer, and Attorney General.  
					Constitutional revisions approved by voters in 1998 reduced 
					the number to three:  Attorney General, Commissioner of 
					Agriculture and Chief Financial Officer, the latter 
					combining the duties of the former Treasurer and Insurance 
					Commissioner.  The Secretary of State and Commissioner 
					of Education are now appointed by the Governor.', 
					', 
				', 
					', 
					', 
					', 
					', [2]',  In 
					1993, the Department of Environmental Regulation and the 
					Department of Natural Resources were combined to form the 
					Department of Environmental Protection (DEP).  The DEP 
					had two representatives on the Land Acquisition and 
					Management Advisory Council, one representing the old DNR 
					land acquisition/land management side of the agency, the 
					other representing the water resource and permitting side of 
					the agency.', 
				', 
					', 
					', 
					', 
					', [3]',  
					Rails to Trails later evolved into our current Greenways and 
					Trails Program', 
			', 
				', 
				', 
							
				\ufeff

', 


   	', State Lands Home', 
   	', Florida Communities Trust', 
   	', Parks Directory', 

 ', Florida Forever', 
 
', 
    ', Acquisition and Restoration Council', 
    ', ARC', 
	', ARC Calendar', 
	', 
	 ', Florida Forever',  Project Descriptions', 
',     
	', Sell Land to State', 
	', Land Acquisition Process', 
	', Buy Land from State', 
', 
	
	', Disposition of State Lands and Facilities Annual Report', 				
	', Use of State-Owned Lands', 
	', Stewardship', 
	', Survey & Mapping', 
	', Appraisal', 
	', FL-SOLARIS', 
', 


', Quick Links', 
', 
	', About Us', 	
	', Contacts', 
	', FAQ', 
	', u"Florida's Lands and Water- Brief Facts", 
	', History of State Lands', 
	', u"History of Florida's Acquisition Programs", 
	', Links & Resources', 
	', Public Notices', 

	', Rulemaking
	
', 

', 
	', 
	', 
	', Email Updates',  ', 
	', Sign up for information and updates related to the Division of State 
					Lands, currently focusing on and featuring surplus state 
					lands. 
	', 
	', 
		', 
		', *Email Address', 
		', 
	', 
	', 
		', 
	', 
', 	
				', 
			', 
		', 
	', 
', 
', Last updated:
', April 06, 2015', 
', 
', 
	', 
	', 	
	', 
	', 

', 


', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
Copyright', 
', 
',  
2012 State of Florida', 
', Disclaimer', 

', Exit Disclaimer', 
', 
Privacy Statement', 
', 
	 ', 
	', 
', 
   3900 Commonwealth Boulevard M.S. 100  
   Tallahassee, Florida 32399   
   850-245-2555 (phone) / 850-245-2572 (fax)', 
   ', Contact Us ', 
', 
', 	
	', 

', 


', DEP Home',  | ', About DEP', 
 | ', Contact Us',  | ', Search',  | 
', Site Map',  ']