[
    
        ', 
    

    
', 
  ', Main Search', 
  ', Premium Members', 
  ', Advanced Search', 
  ',  Disclaimer', 
', 




  ', 
    

      ',  Cites 36 docs 
      
        - [', View All', ]
      
      ', 

      
          ', Section 500 in The Indian Penal Code', 
      
          ', Section 202 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973', 
      
          ', Section 499 in The Indian Penal Code', 
      
          ', Section 202 in The Companies Act,   1956', 
      
          ', Section 482 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973', 
      
    

    

      ',  Citedby 1 docs
      
      ', 

      
          ', Calcutta Municipal Corporation ... vs Arunendra Nath Banerjee on 15 June, 1995', 
      
          ', Zee Aakash News Pvt. Ltd vs Sri Sabyasachi Dutta & Ors on 3 May, 2016', 
      
    
    ', 
  ', 



', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
', 
', 


', 
        


', 

',  
  
', 

    ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      	   
    ', 
  

', 
  
    ', 
      ', User Queries', 
      
          ', defamation', 
      
          ', defamation citedby:1408202', 
      
          ', defamation citedby:1041742', 
      
          ', imputation', 
      
          ', 202', 
      
          ', section 202', 
      
          ', defamatory', 
      
          ', s.500 ipc', 
      
          ', ipc 500', 
      
          ', s. 500 indian penal code', 
      
          ', 499', 
      
          ', ipc sec.500', 
      
          ', section 500 ipc', 
      
          ', section 500 of indian penal code', 
      
          ', section 499 ', 
      
          ', sec.500', 
      
          ', section 500', 
      
          ', mustak hossain', 
      
          ', 499 of indian penal code', 
      
          ', 499 ipc', 
      
    ', 
  
  
', 

', 
    Try out the ', Virtual Legal Assistant',  to take your notes as you use the website, build your case briefs and professionally manage your legal research. Also try out our ', Query Alert Service',  and enjoy an ad-free experience. Become a ', Premium Member',  for ', free for three months',  and pay only if you like it.

', 


    ', 
      ', Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)', 
', M/S. Pataka Industries (Pvt.) Ltd vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 7 October, 2013', Author: Toufique Uddin', 

',                                    1




 07/10/2013

                     CRR No. 3277 of 2008
                    (CRAN No. 2526 of 2010)
                              with
                     CRR No. 3278 of 2008
                     (CRAN No. 93 of 2010)
                    (CRAN No. 2527 of 2010)
                              with
                     CRR No. 3279 of 2008
                     (CRAN No. 94 of 2010)
                    (CRAN No. 2528 of 2010)
                              with
                     CRR No. 3280 of 2008
                              with
                     CRR No. 3283 of 2008



                M/s. Pataka Industries (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              vs.
                The State of West Bengal & Ors.



Mr.   Sekhar Basu, Sr. Adv.
Mr.   Milon Mukherjee, Sr. Adv.
Mr.   P. C. Motilal, Adv.
Mr.   Debashish Roy, Adv.
Mr.   Sandipan Ganguly, Adv.
Mr.   R. P. Matilal, Adv.
                                  ... For the petitioner

Mr. (Dr.) Akbar Ali Khan
                                  ... For the O.P. (in-person)


       As the learned Advocates for both the parties submitted that

the subject-matter of CRR No. 3277 of 2008; CRR No. 3278 of 2008;

CRR No. 3279 of 2008, CRR No. 3280 of 2008 and CRR No. 3283 of
                                   2




2008 are same, so, by a common judgment, all the matters are

taken up for disposal.

       The substance of one of such cases is as follows:



       An application under ', Section 482',  of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 was lodged for quashing of the proceedings of case

No. C-1520/2008 under ', Section 500',  IPC pending before the Court

of learned JM, 9th Court, Alipore and the orders dated 28.3.08 and

21.5.08 and all subsequent orders passed therein.

       The short background of the case is that the petitioner is

anexisting company viz. Pataka Industries Pvt. Ltd. within the

meaning of ', Companies Act', , 1956 having its office at Trimurthi

Apartment, 4th Floor, 97, Park Street, Kolkata-700016 and is being

represented by Sri Ganesh Chandra Sen, duly constituted Attorney

and authorized signatory of the petitioner company who has been

duly authorized by the petitioner company to file this instant

application.

       The Case No. C-1520/2008 was registered on the basis of a

complaint filed by the Opposite Party No. 2 before the court of

learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, South 24 Parganas, Alipore

therein alleging commission of offence by the petitioner and others

punishable under ', Section 500',  IPC.

       The allegations are as follows:

       a) The Opposite Party No. 2 is a member of the Elite Indian

          Police Service and is a highly qualified person.
                           3




b) It is alleged that the Opposite Party No. 2 was entrusted

  with money by persons of his native place at Ghazipur for

  purchase of land in Hatisala Mouza for which he appointed

  a land broker Abdul Rahim Gazi and gave him cash to the

  tune of Rs. 1,02,50,000/- in different instalments between

  February, 2004 to September, 2004.       It is alleged that

  Abdul Rahim Gazi in connivance with the Chairman-cum-

  Managing Director of the petitioner company and his

  brothers, fraudulently and deceitfully utilized the said sum

  of money for purchasing 76 bighas of land in the name of

  three private limited companies.

c) The Opposite Party No. 2 has filed a Complaint case

  against the petitioner company and 7 others in September,

  2007 in the court of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

  Alipore which is pending.

d) The Opposite Party No. 2 and his wife also filed on

  30.8.2007 a civil suit (Title Suit No. 394 of 2007) in the

  court of the learned 7th Civil Judge (Sr. Div.), Alipore

  praying for a declaration that the Opposite Party No. 2 and

  his wife are the owners of the land fraudulently purchased

  by the petitioner company and others in the name of three

  private limited companies.

e) By order dated 31.8.2007 the learned Civil Court directed

  maintenance of status quo in respect of the possession of

  the suit property.
                                    4




       f) That in retaliation, the petitioner company has published a

          false,   baseless,    mischievous,   malicious,    malafide,

          scandalous and defamatory advertisement against the

          Opposite Party No. 2 in the English news-paper "The Times

          of India" dated 5.3.08 wherein it was claimed that the

          Opposite Party No. 2 has used the name and address of

          the petitioner company for applying for Trade mark

          registration of "Future Freedom Foundation".

       g) The Opposite Party No. 2 further stated that previously he

          had good relation with Mustaque Hussain, Chairman-cum-

          Managing Director of the petitioner company and as per

          mutual discussion and consultation, the Opposite Party No.

          2 applied in April, 2004 to the Trade Mark Authority,

          Kolkata for registration of Trade Mark for proposed public

          charitable trust named "Future Freedom Foundation" by

          giving the name and address of the petitioner company.

       h) It is alleged that the said publication was made by the

          petitioner with full knowledge and intention to cause harm,

          damage and injury to the moral, intellectual, general and

          special reputation of the Opposite Party No. 2 with intent to

          lower down his image, name and fame in the eyes of the

          Government, superiors, colleagues, subordinates, friends,

          relatives and the public at large.

       The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, South 24 Parganas,

Alipore on 28.3.2008 took cognizance of the offence and then

transferred the case to the court of learned Judicial Magistrate, 9th
                                      5




Court, Alipore, South 24 Parganas. The learned Judicial Magistrate

examined the Opposite Party No. 2 on solemn and affirmation on

21.5.2008.   After finding prima facie case made out against the

accused persons he was pleased by his order dated 21.5.08 to issue

summons in the name of the accused persons.

       For proper appreciation of the instant case the petitioners

mentioned certain following facts:

          a) The petitioner company is the flagship company of the

             "Pataka Group of Companies" which consists of the

             petitioner company M/s. Nishka Properties Pvt. Ltd. and

             M/s. Subarnarekha Properties Pvt. Ltd.

          b) That with the intention to increase business of Pataka

             Group of Companies, it was intended that "Pataka Food

             Park" and a model residential school would be set up by

             Pataka Group of Companies in or around Kolkata

             Airport and in course of such search for land, the

             company came in contact with Abdur Rahim Gazi, who

             claimed himself to be a reputed land broker of the

             locality. Abdur Rahim Gazi further represented that he

             had helped to procure land for M/s. Robin Gold Trading

             Company Ltd. and its representatives, being the

             Opposite Party No. 2 herein.

          c) That in such circumstances, Mustak Hossain, Managing

             Director-cum-Chairman       of   the   petitioner   company,

             contacted the Opposite Party No. 2, who was known to

             him, and disclosed his desire for purchasing 150 bighas
                         6




   of land at Hatisala Mouza, Rajarhat for and on behalf of

   Pataka Group of Companies.

d) That the Opposite Party No. 2 upon coming to know about

   interest of Pataka Group of Companies for purchasing

   land at Hatisala Mouza, offered his help to act as an

   agent as also render all services to monitor/supervise

   purchase of land as also undertake all monetary

   transactions including registration of the land in favour

   of the buyer.   As the Opposite Party No. 2 was well

   known to Mustak Hossain, Managing Director-cum-

   Chairman of the petitioner company it was decided to

   accept the offer of the Opposite Party No. 2 to act as an

   agent in dealings with the companies of said Mustak

   Hossain.

e) That subsequently from time to time, a sum of Rs.

   1,60,00,000/-, by way of cash, was paid to the

   Opposite Party No. 2 towards purchase of the said 150

   bighas of land at Hatisala Mouza at Rajarhat.

f) That subsequently 76 bighas of land were purchased at

   Hatisala Mouza, Rajarhat between February 2004 to

   August 2004 by 110 registered Sale Deeds executed by

   the respective vendors in favour of the group companies

   of the Pataka Group of Companies.

g) The Opposite Party No. 2 started insisting upon the

   Mustak Hossain to form a partnership firm with the

   Opposite Party No. 2 in land-trading business and
                           7




   asked Mr. Mustak Hossain not to retain the land,

   already bought in the name of the respective companies

   of the Pataka Group, but to dispose of the same at a

   higher price and to invest the proceeds in land-trading

   business with the Opposite Party No. 2. As Mr. Mustak

   Hossain did not accept the said proposal, the Opposite

   Party No. 2 thereafter deliberately withheld 72 original

   IGRs, out of 110 IGRs, in respect of the plots of land

   bought on behalf of the respective companies.

h) That in the month of September 2004, Abdur Rahim Gazi,

   for the first time, disclosed to Mustak Hossain that

   though he has received a sum of Rs. 1,02,50,000/- in

   27 instalments from the Opposite Party No. 2, towards

   consideration value of the land purchased, he has not

   received any amount towards brokerage/remuneration

   despite repeated demands.

i) That   in   such   circumstances,   Mr.   Mustak   Hossain

   demanded accounts from the Opposite Party No. 2 in

   respect of the money entrusted to him but the Opposite

   Party No. 2 avoided providing such accounts.

j) That subsequently the Opposite Party No. 2 ultimately

   was compelled to hand over the balance original IGRs at

   the intervention of senior officers of the Government of

   W.B. but he refused to render accounts or return the

   balance amount of money lying with him.
                          8




k) That finding no alternative Mr. Mustak Hossain wrote a

   letter dated 3.3.2005 to the Hon'ble Chief Minister who

   was in charge of the Home Ministry at that relevant

   point of time, intimating him about the illegal activities of

   the Opposite Party No. 2/complainant.

l) That on receipt of the complaint dated 3.3.2005 one Mr.

   Ajoy Prasad, Director General of Police, West Bengal

   Police Directorate was pleased to forward the said

   complaint to Sri Rama Krishnan, Additional Director

   General, Administration for enquiry.

m) That a confidential enquiry was held wherein the Abdur

   Rahim Gazi and Mustak Hossain, amongst others,

   made statements and finally Sri S. Ramakrishnan was

   pleased to arrive at a finding that the allegations

   against the complainant/Opposite Party No. 2 therein

   was substantiated and he recommended that a criminal

   case be initiated against the Opposite Party No. 2 for

   criminal breach of trust.

n) That subsequently the Government Authorities had

   decided to refer the entire matter to the Vigilance

   Commissioner, West Bengal for further enquiry and an

   enquiry proceeding was duly held by the Vigilance

   Commissioner, West Bengal and 23 witnesses were

   examined and voluminous documents were made

   exhibits. In course of such enquiry, the Opposite Party

   No. 2 gave out threats to Directors, shareholders and
                           9




   employees of the Pataka Group of Companies with dire

   consequences in the event they continued with the said

   demand against the Opposite Party No. 2.

o) That by a letter dated 23.11.2006, the Joint Secretary,

   Government      of    West       Bengal,        Personnel     and

   Administrative Reforms Department, Vigilance Cell had

   forwarded to the Opposite Party No. 2 ture copy of the

   Final Enquiry Report dated 22.10.2006 of Sri Hari

   Prasad Chattopadhyay (retired member of WBHJS)

   Inquiring Authority, Vigilance Commission, Government

   of      West         Bengal        and            asked        for

   explanation/representation from the Opposite Party No.

   2.   In the said inquiry proceeding, 23 prosecution

   witnesses were examined and the Opposite Party No. 2

   was examined as a solitary defence witness.                 In the

   said Inquiry Report it was held that "it is proved that Sri

   Akbar Ali Khan, IPS, while functioning as DIG, Home

   Guard, in course of his active involvement in the real

   estate business received Rs. 1.6 crores from Mustak

   Hossain, Chairman, M/s. Pataka Industries Pvt. Ltd., on

   different dates between February 2004 to August 2004

   in order to purchase land at Rajarhat through Abdur

   Rahim Gazi a land broker and paid Rs. 1,02,50,000/-

   part by part to the said Gazi and an amount of Rs.

   57,50,000/- was misappropriated and such conduct

   shows    lack   of   integrity   which     is    improper     and
                         10




   unbecoming of a public servant as such violative of Rule

   3(1) of All Indian Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. The

   Charged Officer is found guilty of Articles of Charge".

   Against    the   aforesaid    show     cause      letter   dated

   23.11.2006 the Opposite Party No. 2 has moved before

   the Central Administrative Tribunal, Kolkata and the

   matter is pending.

p) That the Opposite Party No. 2 realising that his misdeeds

   have come out in the open and his service prospects

   have come under a cloud, filed a suit bearing T. S. No.

   994/2007 before the learned VIIth Court, Civil Judge

   (Sr. Div.), Alipore inter alia for a declaration and

   injunction against Mustak Hossain, Abdur Rahim Gazi

   and the other group companies of Pataka Group of

   Companies, therein praying for declaration that the

   Opposite Party No. 2 and his wife are true owners of the

   land purchased by the said three companies through

   the broker, Abdur Rahim Gazi and for other reliefs.

q) That is it pertinent to mention herein that on or about

   19.5.2006,       Ganesh      Chandra       Sen,      authorized

   representative of Pataka Industries Pvt. Ltd. had filed

   an application under ', Section 156(3)',  of the Code of

   Criminal     Procedure    before     the     learned       Chief

   Metropolitan Magistrate, Kolkata, being case No. C-

   4252/2006, therein disclosing commission of offences

   by the Opposite Party No. 2 punishable under ', Sections
                       11', 




  ', 406', /', 409', /', 418', /', 420',  IPC. The learned Chief Metropolitan

  Magistrate, Kolkata was thereafter pleased to direct the

  Officer-in-Charge of Park Street P.S. to treat the said

  complaint as FIR and cause investigation but the O.C.,

  Park Street P.S. submitted a report stating that as the

  accused was an IPS Officer, the offence complained of

  should be investigated by an Assistant Commissioner of

  Police.   Later the learned Magistrate dropped the

  proceedings.

r) That subsequently an envelope containing a letter was

  received at the office of the petitioner company.    On

  opening the envelope, it was detected that the letter

  contained therein has been issued by the Registrar of

  Trade Marks, Kolkata under reference No. TLA/1792 dt.

  27.10.2007. The said letter was addressed to "Future

  Freedom Foundation, Kolkata-700 016" with reference

  to Application No. 1279657 in class 41. On a perusal of

  the said notice, it appeared that hearing was fixed on

  29.11.2007 at 11.30 a.m. in respect of the above

  application.

s) The officers of the petitioner company were extremely

  surprised upon receiving such communication from the

  office of the Trade Marks Registry, Kolkata as the

  petitioner company had neither applied for registration

  of any Trade Mark by the name "Future Freedom

  Foundation" nor had provided any authorization to any
                       12




  other person to use its name and address for applying

  for Trade Mark Registration of such name.        In such

  circumstances,   enquiries   were   conducted    and   it

  transpired that the Opposite Party No. 2 by utilizing his

  official seal, had applied for registration of Trade Mark

  in the name of "Future Freedom Foundation" on

  20.4.2004 before the Trade Marks Registry, Kolkata

  and the name and address of the petitioner company

  has been shown to be the address of "Future Freedom

  Foundation". The petitioner company had applied for a

  certified copy of the original application made by the

  Opposite Party No. 2 but has been informed that

  certified copy of the same cannot be provided. In such

  circumstances, the petitioner company has applied for

  the certified copy of the additional representation in

  respect of Application No. 1279657 in Class 41 for the

  Trade Mark "Freedom" in the name of "Future Freedom

  Foundation" and has been provided a certified copy of

  the same wherefrom it is clearly reflected that the

  Opposite Party No. 2 has shown the name and address

  of the petitioner company as the office/place of business

  of "Future Freedom Foundation" and had also signed

  the same.

t) That the petitioner company was extremely perturbed at

  such misuse of its name and address by the Opposite

  Party No. 2 and in order to protect its name and
                         13




  reputation and also to inform the various public

  authorities regarding the wrongful utilization of its name

  and address, the petitioner company, through its

  Manager, wrote to the O.C., Park Street P.S., therein

  bringing to the notice of the said police officer the illegal

  and false application made by the Opposite Party No. 2

  by declaring the name and address of the petitioner

  company as the name of the address of the proprietor of

  the said Trade Mark and furthermore that such use of

  name and address of the petitioner company was

  without the authority, consent and knowledge of the

  petitioner company and it was further clarified that the

  petitioner company was not in any way connected with

  "Future Freedom Foundation" and was not to be held

  responsible for the activities of the said concern.        A

  request was also made for investigation into the said

  matter.

u) That subsequently another communication was received

  from the office of the Trade Mark Registry, Govt. of

  India, Kolkata at the office of the petitioner company

  whereby "Future Freedom Foundation" was informed

  that their Application No. 1279657 in Clause 41 was

  treated as abandoned for want of prosecution at the

  hearing held on 19.11.2007 and as such, the aforesaid

  application was treated as "abandoned".
                                      14




           v) That the petitioner company, in such circumstances, in

             order   to    protect   its   interest   and    reputation    and

             furthermore to prevent further misuse of its name and

             address      in   connection    with     the   running   of   any

             organization under the name of "Future Freedom

             Foundation" published a notice in five daily news-

             papers, viz. 'The Statesman', 'Aajkaal', 'Ananda Bazar

             Patrika', 'Sambad Protidin' and 'The Times of India' on

             5.3.2008, therein informing that the petitioner company

             was in no way connected with the said concern "Future

             Freedom Foundation" as the petitioner company was

             not at all responsible for the activities of the said

             concern/body of persons.

           w) The Opposite Party No. 2 has thereafter filed this

             impugned proceeding therein alleging commission of

             offence of defamation by the petitioner through the

             publication of the said notice/advertisement in the

             newspaper.



       The further contention of the petitioners is that on perusal of

the petition of complaint, it appears that the complaint falls within

the jurisdiction of Park Street P.S. and those are beyond all the

territorial jurisdiction of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Alipore.

       In order to justify the charge under ', Section 500',  IPC it is

required that the allegations satisfy the requirement of ', Section 499', 
                                   ', 15', 




IPC as also the explanations appended thereto. It is required to be

shown by an aggrieved person who has harmed his reputation

directly or indirectly and lowered his moral and intellectual

character in the estimation of others.

       The petitioner company further submits that no permission

was sought for by the Opposite Party No. 2 while using the name

and address of the petitioner company as the place of work of

"Future Freedom Foundation".       The publication of notice in the

newspaper cannot but be said to be an action on the part of the

petitioner company in exercise of its natural right to take such

necessary action for protection of its own interest/rights.           The

Opposite Party No. 2 used the name and address of the petitioner

company. So, the publication of notice is no defamation. Therefore,

charges under ', Section 500',  IPC are not maintainable.             The said

action of the petitioner falls within protection under ninth exception

to ', Section 499',  IPC.

       The allegation in the complaint case, made by the Opposite

Party No. 2 does not make out any contravention of provisions as

alleged under ', Section 500',  IPC. Hence the revision.

       On the other hand, the case and argument of the Opposite

Party No. 2 is as follows:

       The    advertisement   dated      5.3.2008   published    in   the

newspaper The Times of India is highly defamatory against the

complainant and completely fulfills all the ingredients of the offence

of defamation as defined in ', Section 499', u" IPC. All the questions of

fact and circumstances of good or bad faith are required to be
                                     16




examined on the basis of evidence at the trial by the trial court and

not before that by this Hon'ble court in a revision petition under 482

Code of Criminal Procedure.

       The   learned   Magistrate        has    fully   complied   with    the

provisions of ", Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure. The scope of

the inquiry under ', Section 202',  is extremely limited - only to the

ascertainment of the truth or falsehood of the allegations made in

the complaint (i) on the materials placed by the complainant before

the court; (ii) for the limited purpose of finding out whether a prima

facie case for the issue of process has been made out and (iii) for

deciding the question purely from the point of view of the

complainant without at all adverting to any defence that the accused

may have. In proceedings under ', Section 202', , the accused has got

absolutely no locus standi and is not entitled to be heard on the

question whether the process should be issued against him or not.

       It is the contention of the Opposite Party No. 2/complainant

that the learned Magistrate himself inquired into the defamatory

advertisement, which is in black and white and as clearly

defamatory as daylight, by himself perusing line by line and page by

page the complaint and the defamatory advertisement and asking

questions and seeking information and clarification from the

complainant and only on being fully satisfied that a prima facie case

has   been    made     out    by    the        complainant    against      the

petitioner/accused under ', Section 500',  IPC, the learned Magistrate

was pleased to issue the summons against the accused.                     It is

pertinent to mention that ', Section 202(1)',  does not prescribe any
                                   17




specific method or mode of inquiry like X or Y or any particular

duration of inquiry like an hour or a day. The section also specifies

the purpose for which the said inquiry is required to be conducted

by the learned Magistrate and the said purpose is to decide whether

or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding.        The complaint

states and submits that since the defamatory advertisement is in

writing and is clearly defamatory as a bare perusal of the said

advertisement shows and establishes, the learned Magistrate was

fully satisfied that there were sufficient grounds for proceeding in

the matter and hence issued the summon against the accused.

Therefore, since the learned Magistrate conducted the inquiry as per

', Section 202(1)', u" Code of Criminal Procedure there was no need for

him to postpone issue of process on the alleged ground that the

accused were residing at a place beyond the area in which the

learned Magistrate exercised his jurisdiction.

       The learned Magistrate examined the complainant on S/A

and asked questions and clarifications from him and perused the

complaint and the published defamatory advertisement and also

perused the published defamatory advertisement in original in the

newspaper produced by the complainant.           The learned Magistrate

did inquire from the complainant during S/A by asking questions

and only on being fully satisfied after such inquiry he issued the

summons.

       The Opposite Party No. 2 further states that the decision of

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of National Bank of Oman

reported in (2013) 2 SCC 488 as cited by the petitioner is not
                                  18




applicable in the present case as the learned Magistrate did conduct

the prescribed inquiry into the complaint as mandated in ", Section

202(1)',  Code of Criminal Procedure by himself. The Hon'ble court

observed, "The duty of a Magistrate receiving a complaint is set out

in ', Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure and there is an

obligation on the Magistrate to find out if there is any matter which

calls for investigation by a criminal court.   The scope of enquiry

under this Section is restricted only to find out the truth or

otherwise of the allegations made in the complaint in order to

determine whether process has to be issued or not. Investigation

under ', Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure is different from the

investigation contemplated in ', Section 156',  as it is only for holding

the Magistrate to decide whether or not there is sufficient grounds

for him to proceed further. The scope of enquiry under ', Section 202', 

of the Code of Criminal Procedure is limited to the ascertainment of

truth or falsehood of the allegations made in the complaint (i) on the

materials placed by the complainant before the court (ii) for the

limited purpose of finding out whether a prima facie case for issue of

process has been made out; and (iii) for deciding the question purely

from the point of view of the complainant without at all adverting to

any defence that the accused may have."

       ', Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure was amended by',  the

Code',  of ', Criminal Procedure (Amendment Act', , 2005) and the

following words were inserted:

       "and shall, in a case where the accused is residing in a place

beyond the area in which he exercises jurisdiction"
                                  19




       The notes on clauses for the above-noted amendment read as

follows:

       "false complaints are filed against persons residing at far off

places simply to harass them.     In order to see that the innocent

persons are not harassed by unscrupulous persons, this clause

seeks to amend subsection (1) of ', Section 202',  to make it obligatory

upon the Magistrate that before summoning the accused residing

beyond his jurisdiction he shall enquire into the case himself or

direct investigation to be made by a police officer or by such other

person as he thinks fit, for finding out whether or not there was

sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused."

       In fact, the complainant had his witnesses ready and

available for deposition on the day he was examined on S.A. by the

learned Magistrate but the learned Magistrate after conducting his

enquiry by reading the complaint and asking questions from the

complainant was so fully satisfied that a prima facie case had been

made out against the accused that he did not feel it necessary to

examine any other witness and issued the summons.                 The

complainant further states that the distance between the place

residence of the accused and the learned Magistrate issuing the

summons in the above noted National Bank of Oman case was 500

kms. in different states whereas the distance between the learned

Alipore Court issuing summons in the instant case and the

residence of the accused, all within Calcutta, is within 5 kms. and

the place is not far off and no prejudice is caused to the accused by

the issuance of summons in the instant case.
                                       20




       It was submitted that making of an imputation which is per

se defamatory leads to the commission of offence of defamation. He

referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of ', John

Thomas vs. Dr. K. Jagadeesan',  reported in AIR 1992 Supreme Court

2206 wherein the Apex Court held, "Shri Siva Subramanium,

learned   Sr.   counsel   for   the    appellant,   contended   that   the

imputations contained in the publication complained of are not per

se defamatory. After reading the imputations we have no doubt that

they are prima facie libelous. The only effect of an imputation being

per se defamatory is that it would relieve the complainant of the

burden to establish that the publication of such imputations has

lowered him in the estimation of the right thinking members of the

public. However, even if imputation is not per se defamatory, that

by itself would not go to the advantage of the publisher, for the

complaining person can establish on evidence that the publication

has in fact amounted to defamation even in spite of the apparent

deficiency. So, the appellant cannot contend, at this stage that he is

entitled to discharge on the ground that the imputations in the

extracted publication were not per se defamatory."

       Learned counsel for the Opposite Party No. 2 relied upon the

case of ', Dipankar Datta vs. The State of W.B', . (supra) wherein the

Hon'ble court held, "It is thus clear that if the imputations are per se

defamatory there is no need to produce witnesses before issuance of

summons to show that by such imputations the reputation of the

complainant has been lowered down in the estimation of the public."
                                      21




        He referred to the case of ', Shamsher Singh vs. H.S.Malik',  22

(1982) DLT 1 which lays down " I do find any substance in this

contention for the simple reason that the imputations against the

respondent being per se defamatory Explanation 4 of ', Section 499', 

', will not be attracted. In the words of Straight, J., Queen - Empress

vs. McCarthy, ILR 9 ALL 420(426)(1) :
', 
',         "........ Explanation 4 of ', Section 499', u", they are answered by

the observation that the Explanation does not apply where the

words used and framing the basis of a charge are per se defamatory.

When an expression, used verbally or in writing, is doubtful as to its

significance, and some evidence is necessary to decide what the

effect of that expression will be, and whether it is calculated to harm

a particular person's reputation, it is possible that the principle

enunciated in Explanation 4 of ", Section 499',  might and would with

propriety be applied. But in this case, there is no question as to the

significance or meaning of the words written.      They are distinctly

defamatory, within the meaning of ', Section 499',  and as such,

whether they were written in haste or in anger, the respondent is

clearly responsible, and unless she can show that her case falls

within any of the Exceptions to the Section, it was and is impossible

for her to resist a verdict of guilty."
', 
',         The Opposite Party No. 2 also relied upon ', Iridium India

Telecom Ltd. vs. Motorola Incorporated & Ors', . wherein it was held

that the companies are corporate houses can no longer claim

immunity from criminal prosecution on the ground that they are

incapable of passing the necessary mens rea for commission of
',                                    22', 




offence. He further submitted that the case of ', Standard Chartered

Bank vs. Directorate of Enforcement', , similar view is taken.

',        The Opposite Party No. 2 referred to a decision of ', Jeffrey J.

Diermeir & Anr. vs. State of W.B. & Anr', . wherein it was held as

follows:
', 
',        "It is trite that where to the charge of defamation under

', Section 500',  IPC the accused invokes the aid of Tenth Exception to

', Section 499',  IPC, "good faith" and "public good" have both to be

established by him. The mere plea that the accused believed that

what he had stated was in "good faith" is not sufficient to accept his

defence and he must justify the same by adducing evidence.

However, he is not required to discharge that burden by leading

evidence to prove his case beyond a reasonable doubt.         It is well

settled that the degree and the character of proof which an accused

is expected to furnish in support of his plea cannot be equated with

a degree of proof expected from the prosecution in a criminal trial.

The moment the accused succeeds in proving a preponderance of

probability, onus lying on him in this behalf stands discharged.

Therefore, it is neither feasible nor possible to lay down a rigid test

for deciding whether an accused person acted in "good faith" and for

"public good" under the said Exception.      The question has to be

considered on the facts and circumstances of each case, having

regard to the nature of imputation made; the circumstances on

which it came to be made and the status of the person against

whom imputation is allegedly made.       These and a host of other

considerations would be relevant and required to be considered for
',                                        23', 




deciding appellants' plea of "good faith" and "public interest".

Unfortunately, all these are questions of fact and matters for

evidence.
', 
',        In the instant case, the stage for recording of evidence had

not reached and, therefore, in the absence of any evidence on

record, we find it difficult to return a finding whether or not the

appellants have satisfied the requirements of "good faith" and

"public good" so as to fall within the ambit of the Tenth Exception to

', Section 499',  IPC.        Similarly, it will neither be possible nor

appropriate for this court to comment on the allegations levelled by

respondent No. 2 and record a final opinion whether these

allegations do constitute defamation.      Reading the complaint as a

whole, we find it difficult to hold that a case for quashing of the

complaint under ', Section 482',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure has

been made out.      At this juncture, we say more lest it may cause

prejudice to either of the parties.
', 
',        For the foregoing reasons, we are of the opinion that the High

Court was right in refusing to quash the complaint under ', Section

500',  IPC.     The appeal, being devoid of any merit, is dismissed

accordingly. Nothing said by the High Court or by us hereinabove

shall be construed as expression of final opinion on the merits of the

complaint.   For that the learned Magistrate has fully applied his

mind in holding that a prima facie case has been made out against

the petitioner regarding the commission of offence punishable under

', Section 500',  IPC."
',                                     24', 




',        It was contended by the Opposite Party No. 2 that the

petitioner has also annexed a copy of the perverse inquiry report in

the disciplinary proceeding against the complainant. The Opposite

Party No. 2/complainant states that this perverse inquiry report has

no relevance for deciding this petition under ', Section 482', u" of the Code

of Criminal Procedure.     it is neither the order or judgment of a

superior court (the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India) nor the order or

judgment of another High Court or for that matter even of any lower

judicial court like a District or Sub-divisional court.        It is not

conducted under Code of Criminal Procedure or Code of Civil

Procedure and has no binding or persuasive evidence or value at all

before this Hon'ble court or before the trial court. It is not even final

because the complainant has challenged this inquiry report before

the Hon'ble Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench in

Original Application No. 146/2013 where the matter is presently

being heard. This perverse inquiry report will not reach any finality

till it is finally settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court if at all it is

required to be taken there by of the parties/contestants in OA No.

146/2013. Therefore, it is totally irrelevant for deciding this revision

petition.
", 
',        It is a well settled principle that the High Court shall exercise

its jurisdiction under ', Section 482',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure

for quashing of any criminal proceeding in rarest of rare cases,

sparingly and with circumspection.
', 
',        In support of their case learned counsel for the petitioner

cited before me the following decisions:
',                                     25', 




',        a)    ', Shatrughna Prasad Sinha vs. Rajbhau Surajmal Rathi', 

             1997 Cri LJ 212

',        b)    ', Dipankar Bagchi vs. The State of West Bengal', 

             (2010) 1 C Cr LR (Cal) 403

',        c)    ', D.M.Seth vs. Ganesh Narayan R. Poddar, Chairman,

             Shree Sankar Mills Ltd. & Ors', . 1993 Cri LJ 1899 (Bom.)

',        d)    ', National Bank of Oman vs. Barakara Abdul Aziz', 

             (2013) 2 SCC 488.', 

',        On the other side, the Opposite Party No. 2 cited the

following decisions:
', 
',        a) ', Iridium India Telecom Ltd. vs. Motorola Incorporated &

            Ors.   CRA No', . 688 of 2005 (decided on 20.10.10)

',        b) Rameshwara Jute Mills Ltd. vs. Sushil Kumar Daga

             (2009) Cri LJ 2727

',        c) ', John Thomas vs. Dr. K. Jagadeesan', 

            AIR 1992 Supreme Court 2206

',        d) ', Jeffrey J. Diermeier & Anr. vs. State of W.B. & Anr', .

',             CRA No. 1079 of 2010

',        e) ', Shamsher Singh vs. H.S.Malik',  22 (1982) DLT 1, and

',        f) ', M. N. Damani vs. S. K. Sinha & Ors', .

',             CRA No. 596 of 2001 (decided on 2.5.01)

',        g) ', Padal Venkata Rama Reddy vs. Kovvuri Satyanaraya

            Reddy',  (2011) 12 SCC 437

        I have heard them with rapt attention.', 
',                                         26', 




',           For better appreciation of the matter, ', Sections 200',  and ', 202', 

of the Code of Criminal Procedure and ', Sections 499',  and ', 500',  IPC are

reproduced hereunder:
', 
',           S.    200   ', CrPC',       -   Examination      of   complainant - A

Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence on complaint shall examine

upon oath the complainant and the witnesses present, if any, and the

substance of such examination shall be reduced to writing and shall

be signed by the complainant and the witnesses, and also by the

Magistrate.
', 
',           Provided that when the complaint is made in writing, the

Magistrate nee not examine the complainant and the witnesses-

',           (a)   if a public servant acting or purporting to act in the

                discharge of his official duties or a court has made the

                complaint; or

',           (b)   if the Magistrate makes over the case for inquiry or trial

                to another Magistrate under ', Section 192', ;', 

',           Provided further that if the Magistrate makes over the case to

another     Magistrate    under      ', Section   192',     after   examining   the

complainant and the witnesses, the latter Magistrate need not

reexamine them.
', 
', 

',           S. 202 ', CrPC',  - Postponement of issue of process - (1) Any

Magistrate, on receipt of a complaint of an offence of which he is

authorised to take cognizance or which has been made over to him

under ', Section 192', , may, if he thinks fit, and shall in a case where the

accused is residing at a place beyond the area in which he exercises
',                                        27', 




his jurisdiction postpone the issue of process against the accused, and

either inquire into the case himself or direct an investigation to be

made by a police officer or by such other person as he thinks fit, for

the purpose of deciding whether or not there is sufficient ground for

proceeding:
', 
',          Provided that no such direction for investigation shall be

made -
', 
',          (a)    where it appears to the Magistrate that the offence

                complained of is triable exclusively by the Court of

                Sessions; or

',          (b)    where the complaint has not been made by a Court,

                unless the complainant and the witnesses present (if

                any) have been examined on oath under ', Section 200', .

         (2) In an inquiry under sub-section (1), the Magistrate may, if

               thinks fit, take evidence of witness on oath;', 

',          Provided that if it appears to the Magistrate that the offence

complained of is triable exclusively by the Court of Sessions, he shall

call upon the complainant to produce all his witnesses and examine

them on oath.
', 
',          (3) If an investigation under sub-', section 1',  is made by a

               person not being a police officer, he shall have for that

               investigation all the powers conferred by this Code on an

               officer in charge of a police station except the power to

               arrest without warrant.
', 
',          S. 499 ', IPC',  - Defamation - Whoever, by words either

spoken or intended         to be read, or by signs or by visible
',                                        28', 




representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any

person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that

such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person, is said,

except in the cases hereinafter expected, to defame that person.

',          Explanation 1 - It may amount to defamation to impute

anything to a deceased person, if the imputation would harm the

reputation of that person if living, and is intended to be hurtful to the

feelings of his family or other near relatives.

',          Explanation 2 - It may amount to defamation to make an

imputation concerning a company or an association or collection of

persons as such.
', 
',          Explanation 3 - An imputation in the form of an alternative or

expressed ironically, may amount to defamation.

', u"         Explanation 4 - No imputation is said to harm a person's

reputation, unless that imputation directly or indirectly in the

estimation of others lowers the moral or intellectual character of that

person, or lowers the character of that person in respect of his caste or

of his calling, or lowers the credit of that person, or causes it to be

believed that the body of that person is in a loathsome state or in a

state generally considered as disgraceful.
", 
',          First Exception - Imputation of truth which public good

requires to be made or published - It is not defamation to impute

anything which is true concerning any person, if it be for the public

good that the imputation should be made or published. Whether or not

it is for the public good is a question of fact.
',                                     29', 




',         Second Exception - Public conduct of public servants - It

is not defamation to express in a good faith any opinion whatever

respecting the conduct of a public servant in the discharge of his

public functions, or respecting his character, so far as his character

appears in that conduct, and no further.
', 
',         Third Exception - Conduct of any person touching any

public question - It is not defamation to express in good faith any

opinion whatever respecting the conduct of any person touching any

public question and respecting his character, so far as his character

appears in that conduct, and no further.
', 
',         Fourth Exception - Publication of reports of proceedings

of Courts - It is not defamation to publish substantially true report of

the proceedings of a Court of Justice, or of the result of any such

proceedings.
', 
',         Fifth Exception - Merits of case decided in Court of

conduct of witnesses - It is not defamation to express in good faith

any opinion whatever respecting the merits of any case, civil or

criminal, which has been decided by a Court of Justice, or respecting

the conduct of any person as a party, witness or agent, in any such

case, or respecting the character of such person, as far as his

character appears in that conduct, and no further.

',         Sixth Exception - Merits of public performance - It is not

defamation to express in good faith any opinion respecting the merits

of any performance which its author has submitted to the judgment of

the public, or respecting the character of the author so far as his

character appears in such performance, and no further.
',                                     30', 




',         Seventh Exception - Censure passed in good faith by

person having lawful authority over another                 - It is not

defamation in a person having over another any authority either

conferred by law or arising out of a lawful contract made with that

other, to pass in good faith any censure on the conduct of that other in

matters to which such lawful authority relates.

',         Eighth Exception - Accusation preferred in good faith to

authorized person - It is not defamation to prefer in good faith an

accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful

authority over that person with respect to the subject matter of

accusation.
', 
', u"        Ninth Exception - Imputation made in good faith by

person for protection of his or other's interests            - It is not

defamation to make an imputation on the character of another

provided that the imputation be made in good faith for the protection of

the interests of the person making it, or of any other person, or for the

public good.
", 
',         Tenth Exception - Caution intended for good of person to

whom conveyed or for public good - It is not defamation to convey

a caution, in good faith, to one person against another, provided that

such caution be intended for the good of the person to whom it is

conveyed, or of some person in whom that person is interested, or for

the public good.
', 
',         S. 500 ', IPC',  - Punishment for defamation - Whoever

defames another shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a

term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both.
',                                    31', 




', u"        It is also pertinent to mention that the Hon'ble Apex Court

did not quash the proceeding in the case of National Bank of Oman

(supra) but only remitted back the matter to the learned Magistrate

to pass fresh orders in compliance with ", Section 202',  of the Code of

Criminal Procedure uninfluenced by prima facie conclusions of High

Court. It further said that inquiry under ', Section 202', u" is limited only

to ascertain truth or falsehood of allegations made in the complaint.

The Hon'ble Court observed as under:
", 
',         "The duty of a learned Magistrate receiving a complaint is

set out in ', Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure and there is

an obligation on the Magistrate to find out if there is any matter

which calls for investigation by a criminal court.      The scope of

enquiry under this Section is restricted only to find out the truth or

otherwise of the allegations made in the complaint in order to

determine whether process has to be issued or not.       Investigation

under ', Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure is different

from the investigation contemplated in ', Section 156',  as it is only for

holding the Magistrate to decide whether or not there is sufficient

grounds for him to proceed further.     The scope of enquiry under

', Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure is, therefore, limited

to the ascertainment of truth or falsehood of the allegations made in

the complaint - (i) on the materials placed by the complainant before

the Court; (ii) for the limited purpose of finding out whether a prima

facie case for issue of process has been made out, and (iii) for

deciding the question purely from the point of view of the
',                                    32', 




complainant without at all adverting to any defence that the accused

may have".
', 
', u"        The proceeding Case No. C-1520/2008 and others before the

learned J.M., 9th Court, Alipore lodged by the Opposite Party No. 2

show that a letter to Hon'ble Chief Minister of W.B., the then was,

addressed by Mustaq Hossain, another unsigned written matter and

initial conversation of Item were appended. The Opposite Party No. 2

therein contended that those documents were defamatory in nature

and those per se are defamatory and has lowered the estimation,

prestige and position of the Opposite Party No. 2 being an IPS Officer

holding the post of DIG, Police, Home Guard, W.B.

",        In order to make out an offence of defamation, as made

punishable under ', Section 500', u" IPC, it is essential to show existence

of mens rea on the part of the accused persons.         In the instant

case, the Opposite Party No. 2 has also made the petitioner No. 1

company an accused in the instant case. It needs no saying that no

mens rea can be ascribed to a juristic personality, which has no

mind of its own. Moreover, in respect of the private accused person

it also cannot be alleged that there existed mens rea on the part of

the said petitioner as the action of the petitioner in writing letter of

complaint to the Hon'ble Chief Minister, W.B. or the Chief Secretary

or the O.C., Park Street P.S. and Kolkata Leather Complex P.S.

against deeds of the Opposite Party No. 2 is in exercise of his

natural right to take such necessary action. It is for protection of

his own interest and/or rights. Such action cannot be construed to

be attended with malice and as such, cannot be construed to have
",                                   33', 




been made with intent to defame the Opposite Party No. 2. In the

absence of mens rea on the part of the petitioners, the continuance

of the impugned proceeding would be clearly an abuse of the

process of court.
', 
',        In order to justify a charge under ', Section 500',  IPC it is

required that the allegations satisfy requirement of ', Section 499',  IPC

as also the explanations appended thereto. It is thus required to be

shown by an aggrieved person that the imputation which has

harmed his reputation, directly or indirectly lowered his moral and

intellectual character in the estimation of others. In the event, the

moral or intellectual character of the aggrieved person is not lowered

in the estimation of other persons, making of the imputation cannot

per se lead to commission of offence of defamation. In the instant

case, neither the petition nor the statement of the Opposite Party

No. 2, recorded on solemn affirmation before the learned Magistrate,

allege that the reputation and/or moral or intellectual character of

the Opposite Party No. 2 was lowered in the estimation of any other

person.   The Opposite Party No. 2 had also failed to adduce any

person, as witness on his behalf, in support of the fact that his

moral or intellectual character has been lowered in the eyes of the

said person subsequent to publication of the alleged defamatory

statements. It is thus apparent that the Opposite Party No. 2 has

failed to make out a case within the parameters as provided under

', Section 499',  IPC and as such the charge of defamation as alleged

against the petitioner is without any merit.   The petitioners simply

ventilated the alleged activities of the Opposite Party No. 2.    The
',                                         34', 




petitioners denied that they gave permission to use their address for

"Future Freedom Foundation" attempted to be set up by the

Opposite Party No. 2 or the petitioner were ever associated with

such concern.
', 
',           It    appears   that   in',    the   Code',    of   ', Criminal   Procedure

(Amendment) Act', , 2005, an insertion has been made in ', Section 202', 

where an enquiry under ', Section 202',  has been mandatory, in case

the accused persons stay beyond the area in which the learned

Magistrate may exercise his jurisdiction.          It was contended by the

Opposite Party No. 2 that the distance between the jurisdiction of the

court and the place of abode is around 5 kms. This argument has

no basis because admittedly the accused persons reside outside the

jurisdiction of the court, irrespective of any consideration of

distance. So, the compliance of the provisions under ', Section 202', u" of

the Code of Criminal Procedure is a sine qua non.              Whether the

learned Magistrate was satisfied after reading line by line or so is not

the answer. Further, it appears that the decision of National Bank of

Oman (supra) appears to have overruled the decision given by the

Hon'ble Single Bench in Rameswar Jute Mills Ltd. (supra) although

in the case of National Bank of Oman (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme

Court remitted back for passing fresh order regarding compliance of

", Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
', 
', 

',         Summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a serious

matter.        Criminal law cannot be set into motion as a matter of-

course.        The order of the learned Magistrate summoning the
',                                      35', 




accused must reflect that he has applied his mind to the facts of the

case and the law applicable thereto.        The learned Magistrate also

has to examine the nature of the allegations made in the complaint

and the evidence both oral and documentary in support thereof and

determine as to whether the same would be sufficient for the

complainant to succeed in bringing home the charge of the accused.

The learned Magistrate also has to carefully scrutinise the evidence

brought on record and then examine if any offence had been

committed by any of the accuseds.            In the instant case, the

allegations made by the Opposite Party do not make out any

contravention of the provisions as alleged and as such the learned

Magistrate by holding that a prima facie case has been made out

against    the   petitioners   regarding   commission   of   the   offence

punishable under ', Section 500',  IPC has shown non-application of

mind to the facts as disclosed in the complaint.

',           Next aspect of the matter is that the Opposite Party No. 2

appears to have filed an application on 12.11.10 before the learned

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta wherein he also filed similar

type of cases as was in the 9th Court of learned Judicial Magistrate

at Alipore.   The relevant portion of the petition of complaint filed

before the learned Magistrate runs as follows: "to save his time as

well as precious time of the learned court as well as to ease his

financial burden which the complainant has upon himself due to

pendency of many cases and suits, the complainant does not wish to

proceed with the complaint case and wants to withdraw the present

case".    The Opposite Party No. 2 in argument did not categorically
',                                     36', 




say what for still he has not taken any steps for dismissal of this

case or what is the     fate of the petition filed in the 9th Court of

learned Magistrate at Alipore.
', 
',         It was contended by the Opposite Party No. 2 that the

protection, if any, in terms of exercise of ', Section 499',  IPC becomes

available to an accused, if at all, only during trial of the case and not

before that in any revision the petition under ', Section 482', u" of the

Code of Criminal Procedure as the question of fact and matters are

involved in view of the decisions reported in Jeffrey's case (supra).

", u"        It was argued by the Opposite Party No. 2 that the present

DIG, Police, Ex-Commissioner of Police will depose in his favour

before the learned Magistrate, Alipore.      He also claimed to have

received several calls from his colleagues but this fact was neither

stated by him in the petition of complaint nor while he was examined

on solemn affirmation.     The Opposite Party No. 2 capitalises the

decision of Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (supra).       Correct it is that

regarding quashing of criminal proceedings guidelines were there but

respectfully, I am of the view that nowhere therein or any other

decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court (at least to my knowledge) it has

been propounded that quashing of criminal proceeding are strictly

prohibited. Had it been so, there would not have any existence of

quashing of cases made by the Hon'ble Apex Court. It is correct that

in rare cases, the High Court can quash the proceedings and only

when on the face value it appears that there is no commission of

offence at all or the complaint is barred by any statute. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court does not seem to have laid down any embargo on the
",                                       37', 




High Courts where it appears that the petition of complaint does not

make out a case or fulfills the ingredient of offence. Therefore, the

decision reported in AIR 1992 Supreme Court 2296 (supra) appears

to be distinguishable in the instant case.
', 
',            Similarly, the findings in the case of Jeffrey (supra), do not

appear to have been fully applicable in this case.

',            In the decision reported in (2011) 12 SCC 437, no doubt,

principles were reiterated for quashing of criminal proceedings but

total consideration of that judgment rather helps the petitioner

instead.
', 
',            It was contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner

herein that such documents have been annexed in support of the

pleadings made by the petitioner in application filed in the civil

court.      The question arises whether pleadings made in civil

proceedings can fall within the parameters of the offence of

defamation.      Further, it is to be considered as to whether the

annexed document to an application filed before the court of law can

be said to be a publication. In this regard, the learned counsel for

the petitioners referred to a decision reported in 1993 CrLJ 1899

(Bom.) (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "one

needs to realize that litigants and counsels are of necessity required

to be clothed with a certain degree of license in relation to the

conduct of a judicial proceeding where it may be legitimately

necessary to make allegations or counter allegations. As long as the

record indicates that there was valid justification for this, there

would be a total absence of the ingredient of malice and in that
',                                    38', 




event, there can be no question of alleging defamation. To my mind,

this is really the crux of the matter and the learned Trial Magistrate

has completely overlooked this fact. He ought to have taken note of

the fact that the statement in the two paragraphs are not to be

viewed at in a vacuum, in isolation, or dehors the background of the

case and the transactions in which the parties were involved in but

from the angle that a legal proceeding was being defended and it was

necessary to set out with some degree of correctness the defence

which the company had". This decision fits to a T here in this case.

',          Defamation is a species of which mens rea is the genesis.

The complaint of all cases cannot be equated with defamation. The

complaint may not have any mens rea but defamation must have it.

Any sort of allegation with a touch of imputation against any person

per se cannot be categorised as "defamation". Had it not been so,

there cannot be any birth of complaint against anybody.            Every

complaint is more or less having a touch of imputation. There is a

marked    difference   between   'defamation   per   se'   and   'implied

defamation', which is prima facie not actionable. The former

manifests only defamation while the latter is an allegation mixed

with imputation. The allegation necessarily includes imputation to

some extent while the vice versa is not correct.



',          Every citizen has a right to freedom of speech subject to

restriction as covered under ', Section 19(1)(a)',  of the Constitution of

India. Ventilation of grievances to superior controlling authority

against any Officer in respect of an interest inversely suffered by a
',                                      39', 




person does not fall within the ambit of ', Section 499',  IPC to warrant

punishment under ', Section 500',  IPC.
', 
',         The materials on record shows the Opposite Party No. 2 was

found guilty by Vigilance authority although the Charge Officer i.e.

the Opposite Party No. 2 carried thereafter the matter to Central

Administrative Tribunal (CAT), which is stated to be pending. If the

Opposite Party No. 2 loses the battle in CAT, then who will

compensate for the mental trauma or pressure coupled with agony of

the petitioners due to carriage and continuation of Case No. C-

1520/2008 and others? The hollowness of the answer looms large.

The liberty of the petitioners will be seriously affected in that event.

',         On the other hand, if the Opposite Party No. 2 succeeds in

CAT, he will get opportunity to prosecute the petitioners, according

to law. Therefore, the lodging of complaints by the Opposite Party

No. 2 is premature, to some extent, so to speak.
', 
',         However, to get remedy, if any, a complaint is lodged against

any person alongwith touch of imputation there arises no malice or

mens rea to attract defamation.
', 
',         This being the position, I find that the continuance of

proceedings of Case No. C-1520/2008 and others pending before the

9th Court of learned Judicial Magistrate, Alipore will be a sheer

abuse of process of administration of justice.

',         Hence, all the five revisions viz. CRR No. 3277 of 2008; CRR

No. 3278 of 2008; CRR No. 3279 of 2008, CRR No. 3280 of 2008 and

CRR No. 3283 of 2008 stand hereby allowed and accordingly, the
',                                   40', 




corresponding proceedings of C-1524/2008 and others stand

quashed.
', 
',        Accordingly, all the CRAN applications are hereby disposed

of.
', 
',        Urgent Photostat certified copies, if applied for, be supplied

according to rules.
', 
', 

',                                           (Toufique Uddin, J.)
 ',  
    ', 






    ', 
    ', 
    ', 
       
    






'][
    
        ', 
    

    
', 
  ', Main Search', 
  ', Premium Members', 
  ', Advanced Search', 
  ',  Disclaimer', 
', 




  ', 
    

      ',  Cites 36 docs 
      
        - [', View All', ]
      
      ', 

      
          ', Section 500 in The Indian Penal Code', 
      
          ', Section 202 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973', 
      
          ', Section 499 in The Indian Penal Code', 
      
          ', Section 202 in The Companies Act,   1956', 
      
          ', Section 482 in The Code Of Criminal Procedure,   1973', 
      
    

    

      ',  Citedby 1 docs
      
      ', 

      
          ', Calcutta Municipal Corporation ... vs Arunendra Nath Banerjee on 15 June, 1995', 
      
          ', Zee Aakash News Pvt. Ltd vs Sri Sabyasachi Dutta & Ors on 3 May, 2016', 
      
    
    ', 
  ', 



', 
', 
', 
', 
', 
(adsbygoogle = window.adsbygoogle || []).push({});
', 
', 


', 
        


', 

',  
  
', 

    ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      ', 
        ', 
        ', 
      ', 
      	   
    ', 
  

', 
  
    ', 
      ', User Queries', 
      
          ', defamation', 
      
          ', defamation citedby:1408202', 
      
          ', defamation citedby:1041742', 
      
          ', imputation', 
      
          ', 202', 
      
          ', section 202', 
      
          ', defamatory', 
      
          ', s.500 ipc', 
      
          ', ipc 500', 
      
          ', s. 500 indian penal code', 
      
          ', 499', 
      
          ', ipc sec.500', 
      
          ', section 500 ipc', 
      
          ', section 500 of indian penal code', 
      
          ', section 499 ', 
      
          ', sec.500', 
      
          ', section 500', 
      
          ', mustak hossain', 
      
          ', 499 of indian penal code', 
      
          ', 499 ipc', 
      
    ', 
  
  
', 

', 
    Try out the ', Virtual Legal Assistant',  to take your notes as you use the website, build your case briefs and professionally manage your legal research. Also try out our ', Query Alert Service',  and enjoy an ad-free experience. Become a ', Premium Member',  for ', free for three months',  and pay only if you like it.

', 


    ', 
      ', Calcutta High Court (Appellete Side)', 
', M/S. Pataka Industries (Pvt.) Ltd vs The State Of West Bengal & Ors on 7 October, 2013', Author: Toufique Uddin', 

',                                    1




 07/10/2013

                     CRR No. 3277 of 2008
                    (CRAN No. 2526 of 2010)
                              with
                     CRR No. 3278 of 2008
                     (CRAN No. 93 of 2010)
                    (CRAN No. 2527 of 2010)
                              with
                     CRR No. 3279 of 2008
                     (CRAN No. 94 of 2010)
                    (CRAN No. 2528 of 2010)
                              with
                     CRR No. 3280 of 2008
                              with
                     CRR No. 3283 of 2008



                M/s. Pataka Industries (Pvt.) Ltd.
                              vs.
                The State of West Bengal & Ors.



Mr.   Sekhar Basu, Sr. Adv.
Mr.   Milon Mukherjee, Sr. Adv.
Mr.   P. C. Motilal, Adv.
Mr.   Debashish Roy, Adv.
Mr.   Sandipan Ganguly, Adv.
Mr.   R. P. Matilal, Adv.
                                  ... For the petitioner

Mr. (Dr.) Akbar Ali Khan
                                  ... For the O.P. (in-person)


       As the learned Advocates for both the parties submitted that

the subject-matter of CRR No. 3277 of 2008; CRR No. 3278 of 2008;

CRR No. 3279 of 2008, CRR No. 3280 of 2008 and CRR No. 3283 of
                                   2




2008 are same, so, by a common judgment, all the matters are

taken up for disposal.

       The substance of one of such cases is as follows:



       An application under ', Section 482',  of the Code of Criminal

Procedure, 1973 was lodged for quashing of the proceedings of case

No. C-1520/2008 under ', Section 500',  IPC pending before the Court

of learned JM, 9th Court, Alipore and the orders dated 28.3.08 and

21.5.08 and all subsequent orders passed therein.

       The short background of the case is that the petitioner is

anexisting company viz. Pataka Industries Pvt. Ltd. within the

meaning of ', Companies Act', , 1956 having its office at Trimurthi

Apartment, 4th Floor, 97, Park Street, Kolkata-700016 and is being

represented by Sri Ganesh Chandra Sen, duly constituted Attorney

and authorized signatory of the petitioner company who has been

duly authorized by the petitioner company to file this instant

application.

       The Case No. C-1520/2008 was registered on the basis of a

complaint filed by the Opposite Party No. 2 before the court of

learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, South 24 Parganas, Alipore

therein alleging commission of offence by the petitioner and others

punishable under ', Section 500',  IPC.

       The allegations are as follows:

       a) The Opposite Party No. 2 is a member of the Elite Indian

          Police Service and is a highly qualified person.
                           3




b) It is alleged that the Opposite Party No. 2 was entrusted

  with money by persons of his native place at Ghazipur for

  purchase of land in Hatisala Mouza for which he appointed

  a land broker Abdul Rahim Gazi and gave him cash to the

  tune of Rs. 1,02,50,000/- in different instalments between

  February, 2004 to September, 2004.       It is alleged that

  Abdul Rahim Gazi in connivance with the Chairman-cum-

  Managing Director of the petitioner company and his

  brothers, fraudulently and deceitfully utilized the said sum

  of money for purchasing 76 bighas of land in the name of

  three private limited companies.

c) The Opposite Party No. 2 has filed a Complaint case

  against the petitioner company and 7 others in September,

  2007 in the court of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

  Alipore which is pending.

d) The Opposite Party No. 2 and his wife also filed on

  30.8.2007 a civil suit (Title Suit No. 394 of 2007) in the

  court of the learned 7th Civil Judge (Sr. Div.), Alipore

  praying for a declaration that the Opposite Party No. 2 and

  his wife are the owners of the land fraudulently purchased

  by the petitioner company and others in the name of three

  private limited companies.

e) By order dated 31.8.2007 the learned Civil Court directed

  maintenance of status quo in respect of the possession of

  the suit property.
                                    4




       f) That in retaliation, the petitioner company has published a

          false,   baseless,    mischievous,   malicious,    malafide,

          scandalous and defamatory advertisement against the

          Opposite Party No. 2 in the English news-paper "The Times

          of India" dated 5.3.08 wherein it was claimed that the

          Opposite Party No. 2 has used the name and address of

          the petitioner company for applying for Trade mark

          registration of "Future Freedom Foundation".

       g) The Opposite Party No. 2 further stated that previously he

          had good relation with Mustaque Hussain, Chairman-cum-

          Managing Director of the petitioner company and as per

          mutual discussion and consultation, the Opposite Party No.

          2 applied in April, 2004 to the Trade Mark Authority,

          Kolkata for registration of Trade Mark for proposed public

          charitable trust named "Future Freedom Foundation" by

          giving the name and address of the petitioner company.

       h) It is alleged that the said publication was made by the

          petitioner with full knowledge and intention to cause harm,

          damage and injury to the moral, intellectual, general and

          special reputation of the Opposite Party No. 2 with intent to

          lower down his image, name and fame in the eyes of the

          Government, superiors, colleagues, subordinates, friends,

          relatives and the public at large.

       The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, South 24 Parganas,

Alipore on 28.3.2008 took cognizance of the offence and then

transferred the case to the court of learned Judicial Magistrate, 9th
                                      5




Court, Alipore, South 24 Parganas. The learned Judicial Magistrate

examined the Opposite Party No. 2 on solemn and affirmation on

21.5.2008.   After finding prima facie case made out against the

accused persons he was pleased by his order dated 21.5.08 to issue

summons in the name of the accused persons.

       For proper appreciation of the instant case the petitioners

mentioned certain following facts:

          a) The petitioner company is the flagship company of the

             "Pataka Group of Companies" which consists of the

             petitioner company M/s. Nishka Properties Pvt. Ltd. and

             M/s. Subarnarekha Properties Pvt. Ltd.

          b) That with the intention to increase business of Pataka

             Group of Companies, it was intended that "Pataka Food

             Park" and a model residential school would be set up by

             Pataka Group of Companies in or around Kolkata

             Airport and in course of such search for land, the

             company came in contact with Abdur Rahim Gazi, who

             claimed himself to be a reputed land broker of the

             locality. Abdur Rahim Gazi further represented that he

             had helped to procure land for M/s. Robin Gold Trading

             Company Ltd. and its representatives, being the

             Opposite Party No. 2 herein.

          c) That in such circumstances, Mustak Hossain, Managing

             Director-cum-Chairman       of   the   petitioner   company,

             contacted the Opposite Party No. 2, who was known to

             him, and disclosed his desire for purchasing 150 bighas
                         6




   of land at Hatisala Mouza, Rajarhat for and on behalf of

   Pataka Group of Companies.

d) That the Opposite Party No. 2 upon coming to know about

   interest of Pataka Group of Companies for purchasing

   land at Hatisala Mouza, offered his help to act as an

   agent as also render all services to monitor/supervise

   purchase of land as also undertake all monetary

   transactions including registration of the land in favour

   of the buyer.   As the Opposite Party No. 2 was well

   known to Mustak Hossain, Managing Director-cum-

   Chairman of the petitioner company it was decided to

   accept the offer of the Opposite Party No. 2 to act as an

   agent in dealings with the companies of said Mustak

   Hossain.

e) That subsequently from time to time, a sum of Rs.

   1,60,00,000/-, by way of cash, was paid to the

   Opposite Party No. 2 towards purchase of the said 150

   bighas of land at Hatisala Mouza at Rajarhat.

f) That subsequently 76 bighas of land were purchased at

   Hatisala Mouza, Rajarhat between February 2004 to

   August 2004 by 110 registered Sale Deeds executed by

   the respective vendors in favour of the group companies

   of the Pataka Group of Companies.

g) The Opposite Party No. 2 started insisting upon the

   Mustak Hossain to form a partnership firm with the

   Opposite Party No. 2 in land-trading business and
                           7




   asked Mr. Mustak Hossain not to retain the land,

   already bought in the name of the respective companies

   of the Pataka Group, but to dispose of the same at a

   higher price and to invest the proceeds in land-trading

   business with the Opposite Party No. 2. As Mr. Mustak

   Hossain did not accept the said proposal, the Opposite

   Party No. 2 thereafter deliberately withheld 72 original

   IGRs, out of 110 IGRs, in respect of the plots of land

   bought on behalf of the respective companies.

h) That in the month of September 2004, Abdur Rahim Gazi,

   for the first time, disclosed to Mustak Hossain that

   though he has received a sum of Rs. 1,02,50,000/- in

   27 instalments from the Opposite Party No. 2, towards

   consideration value of the land purchased, he has not

   received any amount towards brokerage/remuneration

   despite repeated demands.

i) That   in   such   circumstances,   Mr.   Mustak   Hossain

   demanded accounts from the Opposite Party No. 2 in

   respect of the money entrusted to him but the Opposite

   Party No. 2 avoided providing such accounts.

j) That subsequently the Opposite Party No. 2 ultimately

   was compelled to hand over the balance original IGRs at

   the intervention of senior officers of the Government of

   W.B. but he refused to render accounts or return the

   balance amount of money lying with him.
                          8




k) That finding no alternative Mr. Mustak Hossain wrote a

   letter dated 3.3.2005 to the Hon'ble Chief Minister who

   was in charge of the Home Ministry at that relevant

   point of time, intimating him about the illegal activities of

   the Opposite Party No. 2/complainant.

l) That on receipt of the complaint dated 3.3.2005 one Mr.

   Ajoy Prasad, Director General of Police, West Bengal

   Police Directorate was pleased to forward the said

   complaint to Sri Rama Krishnan, Additional Director

   General, Administration for enquiry.

m) That a confidential enquiry was held wherein the Abdur

   Rahim Gazi and Mustak Hossain, amongst others,

   made statements and finally Sri S. Ramakrishnan was

   pleased to arrive at a finding that the allegations

   against the complainant/Opposite Party No. 2 therein

   was substantiated and he recommended that a criminal

   case be initiated against the Opposite Party No. 2 for

   criminal breach of trust.

n) That subsequently the Government Authorities had

   decided to refer the entire matter to the Vigilance

   Commissioner, West Bengal for further enquiry and an

   enquiry proceeding was duly held by the Vigilance

   Commissioner, West Bengal and 23 witnesses were

   examined and voluminous documents were made

   exhibits. In course of such enquiry, the Opposite Party

   No. 2 gave out threats to Directors, shareholders and
                           9




   employees of the Pataka Group of Companies with dire

   consequences in the event they continued with the said

   demand against the Opposite Party No. 2.

o) That by a letter dated 23.11.2006, the Joint Secretary,

   Government      of    West       Bengal,        Personnel     and

   Administrative Reforms Department, Vigilance Cell had

   forwarded to the Opposite Party No. 2 ture copy of the

   Final Enquiry Report dated 22.10.2006 of Sri Hari

   Prasad Chattopadhyay (retired member of WBHJS)

   Inquiring Authority, Vigilance Commission, Government

   of      West         Bengal        and            asked        for

   explanation/representation from the Opposite Party No.

   2.   In the said inquiry proceeding, 23 prosecution

   witnesses were examined and the Opposite Party No. 2

   was examined as a solitary defence witness.                 In the

   said Inquiry Report it was held that "it is proved that Sri

   Akbar Ali Khan, IPS, while functioning as DIG, Home

   Guard, in course of his active involvement in the real

   estate business received Rs. 1.6 crores from Mustak

   Hossain, Chairman, M/s. Pataka Industries Pvt. Ltd., on

   different dates between February 2004 to August 2004

   in order to purchase land at Rajarhat through Abdur

   Rahim Gazi a land broker and paid Rs. 1,02,50,000/-

   part by part to the said Gazi and an amount of Rs.

   57,50,000/- was misappropriated and such conduct

   shows    lack   of   integrity   which     is    improper     and
                         10




   unbecoming of a public servant as such violative of Rule

   3(1) of All Indian Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968. The

   Charged Officer is found guilty of Articles of Charge".

   Against    the   aforesaid    show     cause      letter   dated

   23.11.2006 the Opposite Party No. 2 has moved before

   the Central Administrative Tribunal, Kolkata and the

   matter is pending.

p) That the Opposite Party No. 2 realising that his misdeeds

   have come out in the open and his service prospects

   have come under a cloud, filed a suit bearing T. S. No.

   994/2007 before the learned VIIth Court, Civil Judge

   (Sr. Div.), Alipore inter alia for a declaration and

   injunction against Mustak Hossain, Abdur Rahim Gazi

   and the other group companies of Pataka Group of

   Companies, therein praying for declaration that the

   Opposite Party No. 2 and his wife are true owners of the

   land purchased by the said three companies through

   the broker, Abdur Rahim Gazi and for other reliefs.

q) That is it pertinent to mention herein that on or about

   19.5.2006,       Ganesh      Chandra       Sen,      authorized

   representative of Pataka Industries Pvt. Ltd. had filed

   an application under ', Section 156(3)',  of the Code of

   Criminal     Procedure    before     the     learned       Chief

   Metropolitan Magistrate, Kolkata, being case No. C-

   4252/2006, therein disclosing commission of offences

   by the Opposite Party No. 2 punishable under ', Sections
                       11', 




  ', 406', /', 409', /', 418', /', 420',  IPC. The learned Chief Metropolitan

  Magistrate, Kolkata was thereafter pleased to direct the

  Officer-in-Charge of Park Street P.S. to treat the said

  complaint as FIR and cause investigation but the O.C.,

  Park Street P.S. submitted a report stating that as the

  accused was an IPS Officer, the offence complained of

  should be investigated by an Assistant Commissioner of

  Police.   Later the learned Magistrate dropped the

  proceedings.

r) That subsequently an envelope containing a letter was

  received at the office of the petitioner company.    On

  opening the envelope, it was detected that the letter

  contained therein has been issued by the Registrar of

  Trade Marks, Kolkata under reference No. TLA/1792 dt.

  27.10.2007. The said letter was addressed to "Future

  Freedom Foundation, Kolkata-700 016" with reference

  to Application No. 1279657 in class 41. On a perusal of

  the said notice, it appeared that hearing was fixed on

  29.11.2007 at 11.30 a.m. in respect of the above

  application.

s) The officers of the petitioner company were extremely

  surprised upon receiving such communication from the

  office of the Trade Marks Registry, Kolkata as the

  petitioner company had neither applied for registration

  of any Trade Mark by the name "Future Freedom

  Foundation" nor had provided any authorization to any
                       12




  other person to use its name and address for applying

  for Trade Mark Registration of such name.        In such

  circumstances,   enquiries   were   conducted    and   it

  transpired that the Opposite Party No. 2 by utilizing his

  official seal, had applied for registration of Trade Mark

  in the name of "Future Freedom Foundation" on

  20.4.2004 before the Trade Marks Registry, Kolkata

  and the name and address of the petitioner company

  has been shown to be the address of "Future Freedom

  Foundation". The petitioner company had applied for a

  certified copy of the original application made by the

  Opposite Party No. 2 but has been informed that

  certified copy of the same cannot be provided. In such

  circumstances, the petitioner company has applied for

  the certified copy of the additional representation in

  respect of Application No. 1279657 in Class 41 for the

  Trade Mark "Freedom" in the name of "Future Freedom

  Foundation" and has been provided a certified copy of

  the same wherefrom it is clearly reflected that the

  Opposite Party No. 2 has shown the name and address

  of the petitioner company as the office/place of business

  of "Future Freedom Foundation" and had also signed

  the same.

t) That the petitioner company was extremely perturbed at

  such misuse of its name and address by the Opposite

  Party No. 2 and in order to protect its name and
                         13




  reputation and also to inform the various public

  authorities regarding the wrongful utilization of its name

  and address, the petitioner company, through its

  Manager, wrote to the O.C., Park Street P.S., therein

  bringing to the notice of the said police officer the illegal

  and false application made by the Opposite Party No. 2

  by declaring the name and address of the petitioner

  company as the name of the address of the proprietor of

  the said Trade Mark and furthermore that such use of

  name and address of the petitioner company was

  without the authority, consent and knowledge of the

  petitioner company and it was further clarified that the

  petitioner company was not in any way connected with

  "Future Freedom Foundation" and was not to be held

  responsible for the activities of the said concern.        A

  request was also made for investigation into the said

  matter.

u) That subsequently another communication was received

  from the office of the Trade Mark Registry, Govt. of

  India, Kolkata at the office of the petitioner company

  whereby "Future Freedom Foundation" was informed

  that their Application No. 1279657 in Clause 41 was

  treated as abandoned for want of prosecution at the

  hearing held on 19.11.2007 and as such, the aforesaid

  application was treated as "abandoned".
                                      14




           v) That the petitioner company, in such circumstances, in

             order   to    protect   its   interest   and    reputation    and

             furthermore to prevent further misuse of its name and

             address      in   connection    with     the   running   of   any

             organization under the name of "Future Freedom

             Foundation" published a notice in five daily news-

             papers, viz. 'The Statesman', 'Aajkaal', 'Ananda Bazar

             Patrika', 'Sambad Protidin' and 'The Times of India' on

             5.3.2008, therein informing that the petitioner company

             was in no way connected with the said concern "Future

             Freedom Foundation" as the petitioner company was

             not at all responsible for the activities of the said

             concern/body of persons.

           w) The Opposite Party No. 2 has thereafter filed this

             impugned proceeding therein alleging commission of

             offence of defamation by the petitioner through the

             publication of the said notice/advertisement in the

             newspaper.



       The further contention of the petitioners is that on perusal of

the petition of complaint, it appears that the complaint falls within

the jurisdiction of Park Street P.S. and those are beyond all the

territorial jurisdiction of the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Alipore.

       In order to justify the charge under ', Section 500',  IPC it is

required that the allegations satisfy the requirement of ', Section 499', 
                                   ', 15', 




IPC as also the explanations appended thereto. It is required to be

shown by an aggrieved person who has harmed his reputation

directly or indirectly and lowered his moral and intellectual

character in the estimation of others.

       The petitioner company further submits that no permission

was sought for by the Opposite Party No. 2 while using the name

and address of the petitioner company as the place of work of

"Future Freedom Foundation".       The publication of notice in the

newspaper cannot but be said to be an action on the part of the

petitioner company in exercise of its natural right to take such

necessary action for protection of its own interest/rights.           The

Opposite Party No. 2 used the name and address of the petitioner

company. So, the publication of notice is no defamation. Therefore,

charges under ', Section 500',  IPC are not maintainable.             The said

action of the petitioner falls within protection under ninth exception

to ', Section 499',  IPC.

       The allegation in the complaint case, made by the Opposite

Party No. 2 does not make out any contravention of provisions as

alleged under ', Section 500',  IPC. Hence the revision.

       On the other hand, the case and argument of the Opposite

Party No. 2 is as follows:

       The    advertisement   dated      5.3.2008   published    in   the

newspaper The Times of India is highly defamatory against the

complainant and completely fulfills all the ingredients of the offence

of defamation as defined in ', Section 499', u" IPC. All the questions of

fact and circumstances of good or bad faith are required to be
                                     16




examined on the basis of evidence at the trial by the trial court and

not before that by this Hon'ble court in a revision petition under 482

Code of Criminal Procedure.

       The   learned   Magistrate        has    fully   complied   with    the

provisions of ", Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure. The scope of

the inquiry under ', Section 202',  is extremely limited - only to the

ascertainment of the truth or falsehood of the allegations made in

the complaint (i) on the materials placed by the complainant before

the court; (ii) for the limited purpose of finding out whether a prima

facie case for the issue of process has been made out and (iii) for

deciding the question purely from the point of view of the

complainant without at all adverting to any defence that the accused

may have. In proceedings under ', Section 202', , the accused has got

absolutely no locus standi and is not entitled to be heard on the

question whether the process should be issued against him or not.

       It is the contention of the Opposite Party No. 2/complainant

that the learned Magistrate himself inquired into the defamatory

advertisement, which is in black and white and as clearly

defamatory as daylight, by himself perusing line by line and page by

page the complaint and the defamatory advertisement and asking

questions and seeking information and clarification from the

complainant and only on being fully satisfied that a prima facie case

has   been    made     out    by    the        complainant    against      the

petitioner/accused under ', Section 500',  IPC, the learned Magistrate

was pleased to issue the summons against the accused.                     It is

pertinent to mention that ', Section 202(1)',  does not prescribe any
                                   17




specific method or mode of inquiry like X or Y or any particular

duration of inquiry like an hour or a day. The section also specifies

the purpose for which the said inquiry is required to be conducted

by the learned Magistrate and the said purpose is to decide whether

or not there is sufficient ground for proceeding.        The complaint

states and submits that since the defamatory advertisement is in

writing and is clearly defamatory as a bare perusal of the said

advertisement shows and establishes, the learned Magistrate was

fully satisfied that there were sufficient grounds for proceeding in

the matter and hence issued the summon against the accused.

Therefore, since the learned Magistrate conducted the inquiry as per

', Section 202(1)', u" Code of Criminal Procedure there was no need for

him to postpone issue of process on the alleged ground that the

accused were residing at a place beyond the area in which the

learned Magistrate exercised his jurisdiction.

       The learned Magistrate examined the complainant on S/A

and asked questions and clarifications from him and perused the

complaint and the published defamatory advertisement and also

perused the published defamatory advertisement in original in the

newspaper produced by the complainant.           The learned Magistrate

did inquire from the complainant during S/A by asking questions

and only on being fully satisfied after such inquiry he issued the

summons.

       The Opposite Party No. 2 further states that the decision of

the Hon'ble Apex Court in the case of National Bank of Oman

reported in (2013) 2 SCC 488 as cited by the petitioner is not
                                  18




applicable in the present case as the learned Magistrate did conduct

the prescribed inquiry into the complaint as mandated in ", Section

202(1)',  Code of Criminal Procedure by himself. The Hon'ble court

observed, "The duty of a Magistrate receiving a complaint is set out

in ', Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure and there is an

obligation on the Magistrate to find out if there is any matter which

calls for investigation by a criminal court.   The scope of enquiry

under this Section is restricted only to find out the truth or

otherwise of the allegations made in the complaint in order to

determine whether process has to be issued or not. Investigation

under ', Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure is different from the

investigation contemplated in ', Section 156',  as it is only for holding

the Magistrate to decide whether or not there is sufficient grounds

for him to proceed further. The scope of enquiry under ', Section 202', 

of the Code of Criminal Procedure is limited to the ascertainment of

truth or falsehood of the allegations made in the complaint (i) on the

materials placed by the complainant before the court (ii) for the

limited purpose of finding out whether a prima facie case for issue of

process has been made out; and (iii) for deciding the question purely

from the point of view of the complainant without at all adverting to

any defence that the accused may have."

       ', Section 202',  Code of Criminal Procedure was amended by',  the

Code',  of ', Criminal Procedure (Amendment Act', , 2005) and the

following words were inserted:

       "and shall, in a case where the accused is residing in a place

beyond the area in which he exercises jurisdiction"
                                  19




       The notes on clauses for the above-noted amendment read as

follows:

       "false complaints are filed against persons residing at far off

places simply to harass them.     In order to see that the innocent

persons are not harassed by unscrupulous persons, this clause

seeks to amend subsection (1) of ', Section 202',  to make it obligatory

upon the Magistrate that before summoning the accused residing

beyond his jurisdiction he shall enquire into the case himself or

direct investigation to be made by a police officer or by such other

person as he thinks fit, for finding out whether or not there was

sufficient ground for proceeding against the accused."

       In fact, the complainant had his witnesses ready and

available for deposition on the day he was examined on S.A. by the

learned Magistrate but the learned Magistrate after conducting his

enquiry by reading the complaint and asking questions from the

complainant was so fully satisfied that a prima facie case had been

made out against the accused that he did not feel it necessary to

examine any other witness and issued the summons.                 The

complainant further states that the distance between the place

residence of the accused and the learned Magistrate issuing the

summons in the above noted National Bank of Oman case was 500

kms. in different states whereas the distance between the learned

Alipore Court issuing summons in the instant case and the

residence of the accused, all within Calcutta, is within 5 kms. and

the place is not far off and no prejudice is caused to the accused by

the issuance of summons in the instant case.
                                       20




       It was submitted that making of an imputation which is per

se defamatory leads to the commission of offence of defamation. He

referred to the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of ', John

Thomas vs. Dr. K. Jagadeesan',  reported in AIR 1992 Supreme Court

2206 wherein the Apex Court held, "Shri Siva Subramanium,

learned   Sr.   counsel   for   the    appellant,   contended   that   the

imputations contained in the publication complained of are not per

se defamatory. After reading the imputations we have no doubt that

they are prima facie libelous. The only effect of an imputation being

per se defamatory is that it would relieve the complainant of the

burden to establish that the publication of such imputations has

lowered him in the estimation of the right thinking members of the

public. However, even if imputation is not per se defamatory, that

by itself would not go to the advantage of the publisher, for the

complaining person can establish on evidence that the publication

has in fact amounted to defamation even in spite of the apparent

deficiency. So, the appellant cannot contend, at this stage that he is

entitled to discharge on the ground that the imputations in the

extracted publication were not per se defamatory."

       Learned counsel for the Opposite Party No. 2 relied upon the

case of ', Dipankar Datta vs. The State of W.B', . (supra) wherein the

Hon'ble court held, "It is thus clear that if the imputations are per se

defamatory there is no need to produce witnesses before issuance of

summons to show that by such imputations the reputation of the

complainant has been lowered down in the estimation of the public."
                                      21




        He referred to the case of ', Shamsher Singh vs. H.S.Malik',  22

(1982) DLT 1 which lays down " I do find any substance in this

contention for the simple reason that the imputations against the

respondent being per se defamatory Explanation 4 of ', Section 499', 

', will not be attracted. In the words of Straight, J., Queen - Empress

vs. McCarthy, ILR 9 ALL 420(426)(1) :
', 
',         "........ Explanation 4 of ', Section 499', u", they are answered by

the observation that the Explanation does not apply where the

words used and framing the basis of a charge are per se defamatory.

When an expression, used verbally or in writing, is doubtful as to its

significance, and some evidence is necessary to decide what the

effect of that expression will be, and whether it is calculated to harm

a particular person's reputation, it is possible that the principle

enunciated in Explanation 4 of ", Section 499',  might and would with

propriety be applied. But in this case, there is no question as to the

significance or meaning of the words written.      They are distinctly

defamatory, within the meaning of ', Section 499',  and as such,

whether they were written in haste or in anger, the respondent is

clearly responsible, and unless she can show that her case falls

within any of the Exceptions to the Section, it was and is impossible

for her to resist a verdict of guilty."
', 
',         The Opposite Party No. 2 also relied upon ', Iridium India

Telecom Ltd. vs. Motorola Incorporated & Ors', . wherein it was held

that the companies are corporate houses can no longer claim

immunity from criminal prosecution on the ground that they are

incapable of passing the necessary mens rea for commission of
',                                    22', 




offence. He further submitted that the case of ', Standard Chartered

Bank vs. Directorate of Enforcement', , similar view is taken.

',        The Opposite Party No. 2 referred to a decision of ', Jeffrey J.

Diermeir & Anr. vs. State of W.B. & Anr', . wherein it was held as

follows:
', 
',        "It is trite that where to the charge of defamation under

', Section 500',  IPC the accused invokes the aid of Tenth Exception to

', Section 499',  IPC, "good faith" and "public good" have both to be

established by him. The mere plea that the accused believed that

what he had stated was in "good faith" is not sufficient to accept his

defence and he must justify the same by adducing evidence.

However, he is not required to discharge that burden by leading

evidence to prove his case beyond a reasonable doubt.         It is well

settled that the degree and the character of proof which an accused

is expected to furnish in support of his plea cannot be equated with

a degree of proof expected from the prosecution in a criminal trial.

The moment the accused succeeds in proving a preponderance of

probability, onus lying on him in this behalf stands discharged.

Therefore, it is neither feasible nor possible to lay down a rigid test

for deciding whether an accused person acted in "good faith" and for

"public good" under the said Exception.      The question has to be

considered on the facts and circumstances of each case, having

regard to the nature of imputation made; the circumstances on

which it came to be made and the status of the person against

whom imputation is allegedly made.       These and a host of other

considerations would be relevant and required to be considered for
',                                        23', 




deciding appellants' plea of "good faith" and "public interest".

Unfortunately, all these are questions of fact and matters for

evidence.
', 
',        In the instant case, the stage for recording of evidence had

not reached and, therefore, in the absence of any evidence on

record, we find it difficult to return a finding whether or not the

appellants have satisfied the requirements of "good faith" and

"public good" so as to fall within the ambit of the Tenth Exception to

', Section 499',  IPC.        Similarly, it will neither be possible nor

appropriate for this court to comment on the allegations levelled by

respondent No. 2 and record a final opinion whether these

allegations do constitute defamation.      Reading the complaint as a

whole, we find it difficult to hold that a case for quashing of the

complaint under ', Section 482',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure has

been made out.      At this juncture, we say more lest it may cause

prejudice to either of the parties.
', 
',        For the foregoing reasons, we are of the opinion that the High

Court was right in refusing to quash the complaint under ', Section

500',  IPC.     The appeal, being devoid of any merit, is dismissed

accordingly. Nothing said by the High Court or by us hereinabove

shall be construed as expression of final opinion on the merits of the

complaint.   For that the learned Magistrate has fully applied his

mind in holding that a prima facie case has been made out against

the petitioner regarding the commission of offence punishable under

', Section 500',  IPC."
',                                     24', 




',        It was contended by the Opposite Party No. 2 that the

petitioner has also annexed a copy of the perverse inquiry report in

the disciplinary proceeding against the complainant. The Opposite

Party No. 2/complainant states that this perverse inquiry report has

no relevance for deciding this petition under ', Section 482', u" of the Code

of Criminal Procedure.     it is neither the order or judgment of a

superior court (the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India) nor the order or

judgment of another High Court or for that matter even of any lower

judicial court like a District or Sub-divisional court.        It is not

conducted under Code of Criminal Procedure or Code of Civil

Procedure and has no binding or persuasive evidence or value at all

before this Hon'ble court or before the trial court. It is not even final

because the complainant has challenged this inquiry report before

the Hon'ble Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench in

Original Application No. 146/2013 where the matter is presently

being heard. This perverse inquiry report will not reach any finality

till it is finally settled by the Hon'ble Supreme Court if at all it is

required to be taken there by of the parties/contestants in OA No.

146/2013. Therefore, it is totally irrelevant for deciding this revision

petition.
", 
',        It is a well settled principle that the High Court shall exercise

its jurisdiction under ', Section 482',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure

for quashing of any criminal proceeding in rarest of rare cases,

sparingly and with circumspection.
', 
',        In support of their case learned counsel for the petitioner

cited before me the following decisions:
',                                     25', 




',        a)    ', Shatrughna Prasad Sinha vs. Rajbhau Surajmal Rathi', 

             1997 Cri LJ 212

',        b)    ', Dipankar Bagchi vs. The State of West Bengal', 

             (2010) 1 C Cr LR (Cal) 403

',        c)    ', D.M.Seth vs. Ganesh Narayan R. Poddar, Chairman,

             Shree Sankar Mills Ltd. & Ors', . 1993 Cri LJ 1899 (Bom.)

',        d)    ', National Bank of Oman vs. Barakara Abdul Aziz', 

             (2013) 2 SCC 488.', 

',        On the other side, the Opposite Party No. 2 cited the

following decisions:
', 
',        a) ', Iridium India Telecom Ltd. vs. Motorola Incorporated &

            Ors.   CRA No', . 688 of 2005 (decided on 20.10.10)

',        b) Rameshwara Jute Mills Ltd. vs. Sushil Kumar Daga

             (2009) Cri LJ 2727

',        c) ', John Thomas vs. Dr. K. Jagadeesan', 

            AIR 1992 Supreme Court 2206

',        d) ', Jeffrey J. Diermeier & Anr. vs. State of W.B. & Anr', .

',             CRA No. 1079 of 2010

',        e) ', Shamsher Singh vs. H.S.Malik',  22 (1982) DLT 1, and

',        f) ', M. N. Damani vs. S. K. Sinha & Ors', .

',             CRA No. 596 of 2001 (decided on 2.5.01)

',        g) ', Padal Venkata Rama Reddy vs. Kovvuri Satyanaraya

            Reddy',  (2011) 12 SCC 437

        I have heard them with rapt attention.', 
',                                         26', 




',           For better appreciation of the matter, ', Sections 200',  and ', 202', 

of the Code of Criminal Procedure and ', Sections 499',  and ', 500',  IPC are

reproduced hereunder:
', 
',           S.    200   ', CrPC',       -   Examination      of   complainant - A

Magistrate taking cognizance of an offence on complaint shall examine

upon oath the complainant and the witnesses present, if any, and the

substance of such examination shall be reduced to writing and shall

be signed by the complainant and the witnesses, and also by the

Magistrate.
', 
',           Provided that when the complaint is made in writing, the

Magistrate nee not examine the complainant and the witnesses-

',           (a)   if a public servant acting or purporting to act in the

                discharge of his official duties or a court has made the

                complaint; or

',           (b)   if the Magistrate makes over the case for inquiry or trial

                to another Magistrate under ', Section 192', ;', 

',           Provided further that if the Magistrate makes over the case to

another     Magistrate    under      ', Section   192',     after   examining   the

complainant and the witnesses, the latter Magistrate need not

reexamine them.
', 
', 

',           S. 202 ', CrPC',  - Postponement of issue of process - (1) Any

Magistrate, on receipt of a complaint of an offence of which he is

authorised to take cognizance or which has been made over to him

under ', Section 192', , may, if he thinks fit, and shall in a case where the

accused is residing at a place beyond the area in which he exercises
',                                        27', 




his jurisdiction postpone the issue of process against the accused, and

either inquire into the case himself or direct an investigation to be

made by a police officer or by such other person as he thinks fit, for

the purpose of deciding whether or not there is sufficient ground for

proceeding:
', 
',          Provided that no such direction for investigation shall be

made -
', 
',          (a)    where it appears to the Magistrate that the offence

                complained of is triable exclusively by the Court of

                Sessions; or

',          (b)    where the complaint has not been made by a Court,

                unless the complainant and the witnesses present (if

                any) have been examined on oath under ', Section 200', .

         (2) In an inquiry under sub-section (1), the Magistrate may, if

               thinks fit, take evidence of witness on oath;', 

',          Provided that if it appears to the Magistrate that the offence

complained of is triable exclusively by the Court of Sessions, he shall

call upon the complainant to produce all his witnesses and examine

them on oath.
', 
',          (3) If an investigation under sub-', section 1',  is made by a

               person not being a police officer, he shall have for that

               investigation all the powers conferred by this Code on an

               officer in charge of a police station except the power to

               arrest without warrant.
', 
',          S. 499 ', IPC',  - Defamation - Whoever, by words either

spoken or intended         to be read, or by signs or by visible
',                                        28', 




representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any

person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that

such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person, is said,

except in the cases hereinafter expected, to defame that person.

',          Explanation 1 - It may amount to defamation to impute

anything to a deceased person, if the imputation would harm the

reputation of that person if living, and is intended to be hurtful to the

feelings of his family or other near relatives.

',          Explanation 2 - It may amount to defamation to make an

imputation concerning a company or an association or collection of

persons as such.
', 
',          Explanation 3 - An imputation in the form of an alternative or

expressed ironically, may amount to defamation.

', u"         Explanation 4 - No imputation is said to harm a person's

reputation, unless that imputation directly or indirectly in the

estimation of others lowers the moral or intellectual character of that

person, or lowers the character of that person in respect of his caste or

of his calling, or lowers the credit of that person, or causes it to be

believed that the body of that person is in a loathsome state or in a

state generally considered as disgraceful.
", 
',          First Exception - Imputation of truth which public good

requires to be made or published - It is not defamation to impute

anything which is true concerning any person, if it be for the public

good that the imputation should be made or published. Whether or not

it is for the public good is a question of fact.
',                                     29', 




',         Second Exception - Public conduct of public servants - It

is not defamation to express in a good faith any opinion whatever

respecting the conduct of a public servant in the discharge of his

public functions, or respecting his character, so far as his character

appears in that conduct, and no further.
', 
',         Third Exception - Conduct of any person touching any

public question - It is not defamation to express in good faith any

opinion whatever respecting the conduct of any person touching any

public question and respecting his character, so far as his character

appears in that conduct, and no further.
', 
',         Fourth Exception - Publication of reports of proceedings

of Courts - It is not defamation to publish substantially true report of

the proceedings of a Court of Justice, or of the result of any such

proceedings.
', 
',         Fifth Exception - Merits of case decided in Court of

conduct of witnesses - It is not defamation to express in good faith

any opinion whatever respecting the merits of any case, civil or

criminal, which has been decided by a Court of Justice, or respecting

the conduct of any person as a party, witness or agent, in any such

case, or respecting the character of such person, as far as his

character appears in that conduct, and no further.

',         Sixth Exception - Merits of public performance - It is not

defamation to express in good faith any opinion respecting the merits

of any performance which its author has submitted to the judgment of

the public, or respecting the character of the author so far as his

character appears in such performance, and no further.
',                                     30', 




',         Seventh Exception - Censure passed in good faith by

person having lawful authority over another                 - It is not

defamation in a person having over another any authority either

conferred by law or arising out of a lawful contract made with that

other, to pass in good faith any censure on the conduct of that other in

matters to which such lawful authority relates.

',         Eighth Exception - Accusation preferred in good faith to

authorized person - It is not defamation to prefer in good faith an

accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful

authority over that person with respect to the subject matter of

accusation.
', 
', u"        Ninth Exception - Imputation made in good faith by

person for protection of his or other's interests            - It is not

defamation to make an imputation on the character of another

provided that the imputation be made in good faith for the protection of

the interests of the person making it, or of any other person, or for the

public good.
", 
',         Tenth Exception - Caution intended for good of person to

whom conveyed or for public good - It is not defamation to convey

a caution, in good faith, to one person against another, provided that

such caution be intended for the good of the person to whom it is

conveyed, or of some person in whom that person is interested, or for

the public good.
', 
',         S. 500 ', IPC',  - Punishment for defamation - Whoever

defames another shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a

term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both.
',                                    31', 




', u"        It is also pertinent to mention that the Hon'ble Apex Court

did not quash the proceeding in the case of National Bank of Oman

(supra) but only remitted back the matter to the learned Magistrate

to pass fresh orders in compliance with ", Section 202',  of the Code of

Criminal Procedure uninfluenced by prima facie conclusions of High

Court. It further said that inquiry under ', Section 202', u" is limited only

to ascertain truth or falsehood of allegations made in the complaint.

The Hon'ble Court observed as under:
", 
',         "The duty of a learned Magistrate receiving a complaint is

set out in ', Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure and there is

an obligation on the Magistrate to find out if there is any matter

which calls for investigation by a criminal court.      The scope of

enquiry under this Section is restricted only to find out the truth or

otherwise of the allegations made in the complaint in order to

determine whether process has to be issued or not.       Investigation

under ', Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure is different

from the investigation contemplated in ', Section 156',  as it is only for

holding the Magistrate to decide whether or not there is sufficient

grounds for him to proceed further.     The scope of enquiry under

', Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure is, therefore, limited

to the ascertainment of truth or falsehood of the allegations made in

the complaint - (i) on the materials placed by the complainant before

the Court; (ii) for the limited purpose of finding out whether a prima

facie case for issue of process has been made out, and (iii) for

deciding the question purely from the point of view of the
',                                    32', 




complainant without at all adverting to any defence that the accused

may have".
', 
', u"        The proceeding Case No. C-1520/2008 and others before the

learned J.M., 9th Court, Alipore lodged by the Opposite Party No. 2

show that a letter to Hon'ble Chief Minister of W.B., the then was,

addressed by Mustaq Hossain, another unsigned written matter and

initial conversation of Item were appended. The Opposite Party No. 2

therein contended that those documents were defamatory in nature

and those per se are defamatory and has lowered the estimation,

prestige and position of the Opposite Party No. 2 being an IPS Officer

holding the post of DIG, Police, Home Guard, W.B.

",        In order to make out an offence of defamation, as made

punishable under ', Section 500', u" IPC, it is essential to show existence

of mens rea on the part of the accused persons.         In the instant

case, the Opposite Party No. 2 has also made the petitioner No. 1

company an accused in the instant case. It needs no saying that no

mens rea can be ascribed to a juristic personality, which has no

mind of its own. Moreover, in respect of the private accused person

it also cannot be alleged that there existed mens rea on the part of

the said petitioner as the action of the petitioner in writing letter of

complaint to the Hon'ble Chief Minister, W.B. or the Chief Secretary

or the O.C., Park Street P.S. and Kolkata Leather Complex P.S.

against deeds of the Opposite Party No. 2 is in exercise of his

natural right to take such necessary action. It is for protection of

his own interest and/or rights. Such action cannot be construed to

be attended with malice and as such, cannot be construed to have
",                                   33', 




been made with intent to defame the Opposite Party No. 2. In the

absence of mens rea on the part of the petitioners, the continuance

of the impugned proceeding would be clearly an abuse of the

process of court.
', 
',        In order to justify a charge under ', Section 500',  IPC it is

required that the allegations satisfy requirement of ', Section 499',  IPC

as also the explanations appended thereto. It is thus required to be

shown by an aggrieved person that the imputation which has

harmed his reputation, directly or indirectly lowered his moral and

intellectual character in the estimation of others. In the event, the

moral or intellectual character of the aggrieved person is not lowered

in the estimation of other persons, making of the imputation cannot

per se lead to commission of offence of defamation. In the instant

case, neither the petition nor the statement of the Opposite Party

No. 2, recorded on solemn affirmation before the learned Magistrate,

allege that the reputation and/or moral or intellectual character of

the Opposite Party No. 2 was lowered in the estimation of any other

person.   The Opposite Party No. 2 had also failed to adduce any

person, as witness on his behalf, in support of the fact that his

moral or intellectual character has been lowered in the eyes of the

said person subsequent to publication of the alleged defamatory

statements. It is thus apparent that the Opposite Party No. 2 has

failed to make out a case within the parameters as provided under

', Section 499',  IPC and as such the charge of defamation as alleged

against the petitioner is without any merit.   The petitioners simply

ventilated the alleged activities of the Opposite Party No. 2.    The
',                                         34', 




petitioners denied that they gave permission to use their address for

"Future Freedom Foundation" attempted to be set up by the

Opposite Party No. 2 or the petitioner were ever associated with

such concern.
', 
',           It    appears   that   in',    the   Code',    of   ', Criminal   Procedure

(Amendment) Act', , 2005, an insertion has been made in ', Section 202', 

where an enquiry under ', Section 202',  has been mandatory, in case

the accused persons stay beyond the area in which the learned

Magistrate may exercise his jurisdiction.          It was contended by the

Opposite Party No. 2 that the distance between the jurisdiction of the

court and the place of abode is around 5 kms. This argument has

no basis because admittedly the accused persons reside outside the

jurisdiction of the court, irrespective of any consideration of

distance. So, the compliance of the provisions under ', Section 202', u" of

the Code of Criminal Procedure is a sine qua non.              Whether the

learned Magistrate was satisfied after reading line by line or so is not

the answer. Further, it appears that the decision of National Bank of

Oman (supra) appears to have overruled the decision given by the

Hon'ble Single Bench in Rameswar Jute Mills Ltd. (supra) although

in the case of National Bank of Oman (supra) the Hon'ble Supreme

Court remitted back for passing fresh order regarding compliance of

", Section 202',  of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
', 
', 

',         Summoning of an accused in a criminal case is a serious

matter.        Criminal law cannot be set into motion as a matter of-

course.        The order of the learned Magistrate summoning the
',                                      35', 




accused must reflect that he has applied his mind to the facts of the

case and the law applicable thereto.        The learned Magistrate also

has to examine the nature of the allegations made in the complaint

and the evidence both oral and documentary in support thereof and

determine as to whether the same would be sufficient for the

complainant to succeed in bringing home the charge of the accused.

The learned Magistrate also has to carefully scrutinise the evidence

brought on record and then examine if any offence had been

committed by any of the accuseds.            In the instant case, the

allegations made by the Opposite Party do not make out any

contravention of the provisions as alleged and as such the learned

Magistrate by holding that a prima facie case has been made out

against    the   petitioners   regarding   commission   of   the   offence

punishable under ', Section 500',  IPC has shown non-application of

mind to the facts as disclosed in the complaint.

',           Next aspect of the matter is that the Opposite Party No. 2

appears to have filed an application on 12.11.10 before the learned

Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, Calcutta wherein he also filed similar

type of cases as was in the 9th Court of learned Judicial Magistrate

at Alipore.   The relevant portion of the petition of complaint filed

before the learned Magistrate runs as follows: "to save his time as

well as precious time of the learned court as well as to ease his

financial burden which the complainant has upon himself due to

pendency of many cases and suits, the complainant does not wish to

proceed with the complaint case and wants to withdraw the present

case".    The Opposite Party No. 2 in argument did not categorically
',                                     36', 




say what for still he has not taken any steps for dismissal of this

case or what is the     fate of the petition filed in the 9th Court of

learned Magistrate at Alipore.
', 
',         It was contended by the Opposite Party No. 2 that the

protection, if any, in terms of exercise of ', Section 499',  IPC becomes

available to an accused, if at all, only during trial of the case and not

before that in any revision the petition under ', Section 482', u" of the

Code of Criminal Procedure as the question of fact and matters are

involved in view of the decisions reported in Jeffrey's case (supra).

", u"        It was argued by the Opposite Party No. 2 that the present

DIG, Police, Ex-Commissioner of Police will depose in his favour

before the learned Magistrate, Alipore.      He also claimed to have

received several calls from his colleagues but this fact was neither

stated by him in the petition of complaint nor while he was examined

on solemn affirmation.     The Opposite Party No. 2 capitalises the

decision of Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (supra).       Correct it is that

regarding quashing of criminal proceedings guidelines were there but

respectfully, I am of the view that nowhere therein or any other

decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court (at least to my knowledge) it has

been propounded that quashing of criminal proceeding are strictly

prohibited. Had it been so, there would not have any existence of

quashing of cases made by the Hon'ble Apex Court. It is correct that

in rare cases, the High Court can quash the proceedings and only

when on the face value it appears that there is no commission of

offence at all or the complaint is barred by any statute. The Hon'ble

Supreme Court does not seem to have laid down any embargo on the
",                                       37', 




High Courts where it appears that the petition of complaint does not

make out a case or fulfills the ingredient of offence. Therefore, the

decision reported in AIR 1992 Supreme Court 2296 (supra) appears

to be distinguishable in the instant case.
', 
',            Similarly, the findings in the case of Jeffrey (supra), do not

appear to have been fully applicable in this case.

',            In the decision reported in (2011) 12 SCC 437, no doubt,

principles were reiterated for quashing of criminal proceedings but

total consideration of that judgment rather helps the petitioner

instead.
', 
',            It was contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner

herein that such documents have been annexed in support of the

pleadings made by the petitioner in application filed in the civil

court.      The question arises whether pleadings made in civil

proceedings can fall within the parameters of the offence of

defamation.      Further, it is to be considered as to whether the

annexed document to an application filed before the court of law can

be said to be a publication. In this regard, the learned counsel for

the petitioners referred to a decision reported in 1993 CrLJ 1899

(Bom.) (supra) wherein the Hon'ble Supreme Court held that "one

needs to realize that litigants and counsels are of necessity required

to be clothed with a certain degree of license in relation to the

conduct of a judicial proceeding where it may be legitimately

necessary to make allegations or counter allegations. As long as the

record indicates that there was valid justification for this, there

would be a total absence of the ingredient of malice and in that
',                                    38', 




event, there can be no question of alleging defamation. To my mind,

this is really the crux of the matter and the learned Trial Magistrate

has completely overlooked this fact. He ought to have taken note of

the fact that the statement in the two paragraphs are not to be

viewed at in a vacuum, in isolation, or dehors the background of the

case and the transactions in which the parties were involved in but

from the angle that a legal proceeding was being defended and it was

necessary to set out with some degree of correctness the defence

which the company had". This decision fits to a T here in this case.

',          Defamation is a species of which mens rea is the genesis.

The complaint of all cases cannot be equated with defamation. The

complaint may not have any mens rea but defamation must have it.

Any sort of allegation with a touch of imputation against any person

per se cannot be categorised as "defamation". Had it not been so,

there cannot be any birth of complaint against anybody.            Every

complaint is more or less having a touch of imputation. There is a

marked    difference   between   'defamation   per   se'   and   'implied

defamation', which is prima facie not actionable. The former

manifests only defamation while the latter is an allegation mixed

with imputation. The allegation necessarily includes imputation to

some extent while the vice versa is not correct.



',          Every citizen has a right to freedom of speech subject to

restriction as covered under ', Section 19(1)(a)',  of the Constitution of

India. Ventilation of grievances to superior controlling authority

against any Officer in respect of an interest inversely suffered by a
',                                      39', 




person does not fall within the ambit of ', Section 499',  IPC to warrant

punishment under ', Section 500',  IPC.
', 
',         The materials on record shows the Opposite Party No. 2 was

found guilty by Vigilance authority although the Charge Officer i.e.

the Opposite Party No. 2 carried thereafter the matter to Central

Administrative Tribunal (CAT), which is stated to be pending. If the

Opposite Party No. 2 loses the battle in CAT, then who will

compensate for the mental trauma or pressure coupled with agony of

the petitioners due to carriage and continuation of Case No. C-

1520/2008 and others? The hollowness of the answer looms large.

The liberty of the petitioners will be seriously affected in that event.

',         On the other hand, if the Opposite Party No. 2 succeeds in

CAT, he will get opportunity to prosecute the petitioners, according

to law. Therefore, the lodging of complaints by the Opposite Party

No. 2 is premature, to some extent, so to speak.
', 
',         However, to get remedy, if any, a complaint is lodged against

any person alongwith touch of imputation there arises no malice or

mens rea to attract defamation.
', 
',         This being the position, I find that the continuance of

proceedings of Case No. C-1520/2008 and others pending before the

9th Court of learned Judicial Magistrate, Alipore will be a sheer

abuse of process of administration of justice.

',         Hence, all the five revisions viz. CRR No. 3277 of 2008; CRR

No. 3278 of 2008; CRR No. 3279 of 2008, CRR No. 3280 of 2008 and

CRR No. 3283 of 2008 stand hereby allowed and accordingly, the
',                                   40', 




corresponding proceedings of C-1524/2008 and others stand

quashed.
', 
',        Accordingly, all the CRAN applications are hereby disposed

of.
', 
',        Urgent Photostat certified copies, if applied for, be supplied

according to rules.
', 
', 

',                                           (Toufique Uddin, J.)
 ',  
    ', 






    ', 
    ', 
    ', 
       
    






']